 bannon-william a. on may 8, 2000 of mattituck, formerly of flatbush. world war ii d day army veteran. beloved husband of the late muriel. devoted father of dennis and the late william. also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. reposing at the willaim f. coster funeral home, main rd., route 25, cutchogue, new york, wednesday and thursday 2 pm to 4 pm and 7 pm to 9 pm. funeral mass 11 am, friday at our lady of good cousel church, mattituck. burial to follow in sacred heart cemetery. memorials may be sent to east end hospice. bannon-william a. on may 8, 2000 of mattituck, formerly of flatbush. world war ii d day army veteran. beloved husband of the late muriel. devoted father of dennis and the late william. also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. reposing at the willaim f. coster funeral home, main rd., route 25, cutchogue, new york, wednesday and thursday 2 pm to 4 pm and 7 pm to 9 pm. funeral mass 11 am, friday at our lady of good cousel church, mattituck. burial to follow in sacred heart cemetery. memorials may be sent to east end hospice. on the campaign trail, the two presumptive presidential candidates have differing views of the ''humanitarian intervention'' policy. george w. bush jr. has said he would be much more selective in deciding where and when the united states would intervene. vice president al gore supported the interventionist policy in a recent major speech. mr. gore was instrumental in preventing the agency from being melded into the state department years ago. wekselblatt-raymond, on may 8, at 79 years. beloved husband of the late beverly. devoted father of joseph and abbe. dear father-in-law of maureen and mitchell. loving grandfather of rachel, beth, sara, shelby and brooke. service today, 10 am, ''parkside'' memorial chapel, 2576 flatbush avenue, brooklyn, new york (near avenue v). wekselblatt-raymond, on may 8, at 79 years. beloved husband of the late beverly. devoted father of joseph and abbe. dear father-in-law of maureen and mitchell. loving grandfather of rachel, beth, sara, shelby and brooke. service today, 10 am, ''parkside'' memorial chapel, 2576 flatbush avenue, brooklyn, new york (near avenue v). once-mighty texas democratic party, whose fabled leaders lyndon b johnson and sam rayburn dominated not just state but also nation, has fallen on very hard times; of 29 officials elected statewide, none are democrats; republican sen kay bailey hutchison faces only token democratic opposition in re-election bid and several democratic legislators are busy campaigning for gov george w bush, soon to be republican presidential nominee; photos (m) of today's 29 officials elected statewide in texas, none are democrats. senator kay bailey hutchison, a republican, faces only token democratic opposition in her re-election campaign this year, which is more opposition than the party is providing in most statewide races. and much to the chagrin of the democratic state chairwoman, molly beth malcolm, several democratic legislators are out campaigning with none other than the second-term governor, george w. bush, soon to be the republican presidential nominee. of today's 29 officials elected statewide in texas, none are democrats. senator kay bailey hutchison, a republican, faces only token democratic opposition in her re-election campaign this year, which is more opposition than the party is providing in most statewide races. and much to the chagrin of the democratic state chairwoman, molly beth malcolm, several democratic legislators are out campaigning with none other than the second-term governor, george w. bush, soon to be the republican presidential nominee. other than the most partisan republicans, few people in texas would argue that democrats are powerless or obsolete, particularly since the party still controls the congressional delegation and the texas house of representatives. but as mr. bush campaigns for the white house, democrats are consumed by a parochial, less glamorous electoral agenda, including legislative races and preparing for the 2002 run for governor. and few elected democrats are willing to make trouble for the popular mr. bush. the state's most famous democrat, former gov. ann w. richards, who spends much of her time as a washington lobbyist, is among those who have refrained from attacking the man who defeated her in 1994. the state's most powerful democrat,  pete laney, speaker of the texas house, has so far stayed out of the presidential race. other conservative democrats in the legislature either like mr. bush personally or are wary of antagonizing him as their districts become increasingly republican. ''there's no percentage in giving bush a hard time,'' said harvey kronberg, publisher of the quorum report, a widely read online newsletter covering texas politics. that detente is a timely gift for mr. bush as he positions himself as a coalition builder who would foster bipartisanship in washington. by contrast, arkansas republicans tried to crush bill clinton in 1992, maligning his record and his character and leaving little doubt of their goal. ''defeating the enemy at all costs,'' recalled richard bearden, then the executive director of the arkansas republican party, ''and bill clinton was the enemy.'' merle black, a political scientist at emory university, said testimonials from home-state allies whom many voters across the country might find unexpected could provide credibility for presidential candidates introducing themselves to a national audience. coming out of georgia in 1976, jimmy carter enlisted the civil rights leader andrew young to help demonstrate that he was a southern democrat of a sort different from the race-baiting george c. wallace.  in the same vein, mr. black said, mr. bush is enlisting texas democrats to help reassure voters that he is different from the combative congressional republicans of the 1990's. ''bush is trying to show that he's not newt gingrich, he's not tom delay, he's not dick armey,'' mr. black said. though the decline of the texas democrats has roots in the 1960's, the unequivocal slap in the face from the voters came in 1998, when the party lost every one of more than a dozen statewide races, from governor to lieutenant governor to land commissioner, and mr. bush won  with nearly 70 percent of the vote. an autopsy of recent democratic misfortunes would point to money and demographics as the chief problems. texas' huge size requires statewide candidates to raise millions upon millions of dollars in order to compete in every media market. with corporate interests favoring republicans, said mr. kronberg, the online analyst, democrats often depend on contributions from trial lawyers. and republicans, led by mr. bush, have demonized the trial bar as greedy pushers of unnecessary lawsuits. with the party struggling, many democrats agree that a high-profile effort to attack and embarrass mr. bush would make little sense. ''right now, our fight is not statewide,'' mr. mcclung said. ''george w. bush is popular. he's extremely well financed. and most texans would prefer to have a president from texas than fight about party politics.'' to a large extent, the immediate future of texas politics depends on mr. bush's future. if he wins in november, his job will fall to lt. gov. rick perry, a republican whose replacement would be chosen by the state senate. as the presiding officer of the senate, the lieutenant governor is considered the official with greatest influence over legislation, and a handful of candidates in both parties are already jockeying for position. but neither party dominates the senate, and no one expects a party-line vote for lieutenant governor. instead, victory will require attracting votes from both sides, and the hopefuls are making certain to avoid any partisan warfare. one of them, state senator ken armbrister, was among  four democrats who campaigned with mr. bush in ohio last month. regardless of the outcome in november, democrats say, they are pointing to 2002 and beyond. the powerful statewide offices of governor, lieutenant governor, attorney general and comptroller are on the ballot in 2002. mr. bush will either be in washington or leaving office in austin, and democratic officials already envision a statewide ticket that would include mr. sharp, mr. hobby and perhaps the mayors of dallas, ron kirk, and austin, kirk watson. mr. mcclung and other democrats also believe that the state's changing demographics may turn in their favor in this decade. hispanics are expected to soon become the state's most populous ethnic group, and as yet they usually support democrats. mr. bush has aggressively courted hispanics, but democrats believe that their appeal is stronger. in addition, college-age voters are showing renewed interest in the party. all this is the gospel that democrats are repeating to themselves. nevertheless, we have not seen so much political commitment to better schools since the 1988 campaign, when george bush and michael dukakis each announced he intended to become the ''education president.'' the golden age of pedagogy that everyone expected to flow from this contest somehow failed to arrive. now al gore and george w. bush trade assault e-mail on the subject every single day. mr. bush cannot talk enough about the way he's improved the schools in texas. he is particularly voluble about having ended social promotion, about how he insisted that no texas child go from the third grade to the fourth until he or she could read at grade level. ''it's important to have high standards,'' he told a county republican gathering a while back, using a bush ian gesture that indicates the height he had in mind was about five feet. in truth, the first kids who will ever be affected by that policy are currently in kindergarten. this is the classic political approach to the setting of standards on any topic. you want to be strict about the required levels of achievement, but loose about the timetable. the ideal due date, in fact, is the year after whoever sets the standards leaves office. if mr. bush is lucky, by the time texas third graders start getting held back, he'll be in washington preparing for his re-election campaign. to be fair to mr. bush, texas is actually making an attempt to set the bar higher without whopping it over the heads of the children who happen to get caught in the transition. this year the teachers started getting additional training, and the students' skills are being tested regularly so those who start to fall behind can get special tutoring. a timetable that actually prepares kids for the standards they're supposed to meet is definitely not silly. the drama in sierra leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 united nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the west african bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. the rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear. the drama in sierra leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 united nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the west african bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. the rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear. massachusetts and california recently decided to assess schools based on performance by race, as new york plans to do. in a presidential campaign event to mark national teachers day today, gov. george w. bush of texas plans to discuss ways to close the gap. article appraises 30-second advertisement by presidential campaign of vice pres al gore criticizing gov george w bush's stand on gun control; photo on the screen -- a still photo of gov. george w. bush of texas, closing in tightly on his left eye. cut to a shot in which a man is shown tucking a large silver pistol under his belt buckle. scenes of a rustic church and children riding on a carousel dramatically break apart, like a smashed mirror, to reveal a grainy video clip of kayne robinson, first vice president of the national rifle association, talking emphatically to an audience of n.r.a. members. concludes with a shot of the white house. the script -- male announcer: ''george bush says if you want to know what he'll do as president, take a look at his record.'' female announcer: ''as governor of texas, bush signed the law that allows carrying concealed handguns for the first time in 125 years.'' male announcer: ''and he signed the law that allows carrying those concealed handguns in churches, nursing homes, even amusement parks.'' female announcer: ''no wonder the n.r.a. says'': (voice of mr. robinson) ''if we win, we'll have a president'' (here mr. robinson's words are spliced to bring two sentence fragments together) ''where we work out of their office.'' female announcer: ''tell governor bush: the white house is our house.'' male announcer: ''and it shouldn't belong to the n.r.a.'' accuracy -- it is true that mr. bush has often sided with the national rifle association in legislative battles in his more than five years as governor. over the objections of gun control advocates, he signed legislation allowing people to carry concealed handguns, allowing handguns to be taken into churches and prohibiting local governments from suing gun manufacturers. the n.r.a.'s executive vice president, wayne lapierre, also recently helped raise at least $250,000 at a major republican party fund-raiser honoring mr. bush. but mr. bush has at times tried to distance himself from the organization, by supporting mandatory trigger locks for new handguns and criticizing mr. lapierre for asserting that president clinton had tolerated a certain level of gun violence for political reasons. scorecard -- by trying to depict mr. bush as a pawn of the n.r.a., the advertisement seeks to make him seem like an extremist on gun control issues, because the n.r.a. is widely perceived as intransigently opposed to any restrictions on gun ownership. also, it suggests that the governor is not his own man, that he is beholden to powerful right-wing interest groups. the advertisement is not being shown widely enough to affect many voters directly, but handgun control is clearly hoping that journalists in washington and texas will use it to write critical stories about mr. bush. the group is also running the spot in several cities with hotly contested congressional races in which gun control may become an important issue, including lansing and columbus. political observers and analysts eagerly anticipate may 8 fence-mending meeting between gov george w bush and sen john mccain, first since bush trounced mccain in primaries on march 7; expectation is that mccain will make endorsement (m) if politics is often about appearances, the eagerly anticipated meeting here on tuesday between gov. george w. bush of texas and senator john mccain of arizona is being scrutinized by political observers and reporters as closely as egyptologists might pore over hieroglyphics. if politics is often about appearances, the eagerly anticipated meeting here on tuesday between gov. george w. bush of texas and senator john mccain of arizona is being scrutinized by political observers and reporters as closely as egyptologists might pore over hieroglyphics. in their first meeting since mr. bush trounced mr. mccain in the primaries on march 7, the governor and senator are getting together at mr. bush's invitation for private fence-mending, public picture-taking and the expectation in the bush camp that mr. mccain would eventually make some kind of endorsement. by a bush campaign estimate, 120 journalists had inquired about attending the news conference. analysts have talked like color commentators about watching mr. mccain's body language. ''it's a test of leadership for bush,'' said tom hannon, who oversees coverage of politics for cnn. ''in that sense, it's a purely political story; it has much to do with bush's facility for handling it and how he handles the whole nomination process.'' mr. mccain's performance at the signing of copies of his autobiography showed how much he still enjoyed the attention. at a news conference, the senator dropped hints that he might yet endorse mr. bush on tuesday: when asked if that was a possibility, mr. mccain said, ''sure.'' ''endorse'' is the word mr. bush dearly wants mr. mccain to utter when they emerge from their morning meeting at the william penn hotel here. and as if to keep mr. bush in suspense, mr. mccain was quoted in the pittsburgh post-gazette this morning as ruling out an endorsement for the time being. he told the paper that he wanted a clearer understanding of the governor's claim to be ''a reformer with results.'' supporters of mr. mccain said the senator would almost certainly endorse mr. bush, if not today, sometime soon. but first, hurt feelings must be purged. in fact, in discussing the mending of the wounded egos on both sides -- mr. mccain is still smarting over the governor's attack ads and mr. bush is said to remain miffed at the senator's resistance to come in from the cold -- mr. graham sounded more like a radio psychiatrist. mr. bush seemed to acknowledge the need for catharsis. speaking to reporters at la guardia airport in new york before attending the funeral of cardinal john j. o'connor, the governor said that he was ''looking forward'' to talking to mr. mccain. ''probably the most important thing will be body language and tone,'' said mr. halperin said. ''all eyes and camera lenses will be on the question of, does mccain act as if george bush is his leader, or does he act like the independent maverick, unhappy with the way things have turned out?'' it is far from customary for a vanquished contender for president to withhold formal support for this long. this year, for instance, former senator bill bradley endorsed vice president al gore within 48 hours of losing every state on march 7. the democrats said they are getting a kick out of the hoops that mr. bush appeared to be going through to win over mr. mccain. ''it's part of the bob jones university redemption tour,'' said joe andrew, chairman of the democratic national committee, referring to mr. bush's efforts to distance himself from the christian conservatives he wooed during the primaries. mr. andrew will hold a news conference here on tuesday with senior citizens from across pennsylvania, to point up discrepancies in mr. bush's and mr. mccain's proposals regarding social security. of course, the question of whether an endorsement by a member of one's own party is meaningful to anyone but the candidate and the people paid to write and talk about it remains an open one. to senator arlen specter, a republican whose home state is host to the meeting, the issue may be settled a lot more easily than a lot of people think: ''it's for governor bush to say, ''i'd like to have your support.' '' after all, mr. specter said, he hasn't made an endorsement, either. ''when mccain and bush were in it together, i thought it was the better part of valor to stay out of it,'' he explained. since then, he added, ''nobody's asked me.'' cuomo seeks bush stand on gun bill  housing secretary andrew cuomo added his voice yesterday to the chorus of democrats who have called on gov. george w. bush of texas to clarify his position on federal legislation that would prohibit lawsuits by local governments against gun manufacturers. mr. bush signed such legislation in texas, and suggested last week that he would do the same in washington. in a telephone news conference yesterday, mr. cuomo, who has tried to negotiate settlements between gun makers and cities that have sued them, called mr. bush's remarks vague. he asserted that the gun makers, who have broken off talks in recent months, would return to the table if they knew mr. bush opposed such legislation. bush aides accused mr. cuomo of politicizing the issue. ''instead of spending their time distorting and misrepresenting governor bush's priorities, the clinton-gore administration ought to spend more time enforcing our existing gun laws,'' said scott mcclellan, a spokesman for mr. bush. cuomo seeks bush stand on gun bill  housing secretary andrew cuomo added his voice yesterday to the chorus of democrats who have called on gov. george w. bush of texas to clarify his position on federal legislation that would prohibit lawsuits by local governments against gun manufacturers. mr. bush signed such legislation in texas, and suggested last week that he would do the same in washington. in a telephone news conference yesterday, mr. cuomo, who has tried to negotiate settlements between gun makers and cities that have sued them, called mr. bush's remarks vague. he asserted that the gun makers, who have broken off talks in recent months, would return to the table if they knew mr. bush opposed such legislation. bush aides accused mr. cuomo of politicizing the issue. ''instead of spending their time distorting and misrepresenting governor bush's priorities, the clinton-gore administration ought to spend more time enforcing our existing gun laws,'' said scott mcclellan, a spokesman for mr. bush. abortion looms as platform issue  various interests groups, especially those that support abortion rights, plan to have their voices heard when the republican national convention this summer in philadelphia assembles a platform for this year's nominee. over the weekend, gov. tommy g. thompson of wisconsin, the recently selected chairman of the platform committee, offered them some thoughts. after all the hearings are held and all the testimony is heard, he said, the presidential candidate will have the last word, not the committee. ''i'm certainly going to be listening to all sectors of the party,'' mr. thompson told the philadelphia inquirer. ''but my ultimate client is george bush, and what he feels best is what we will do.'' on the matter of abortion, mr. thompson said he would abide by mr. bush's promises to leave the current plank, which strongly opposes abortion. rift grows among arizona republicans  it is no secret among arizona republicans that gov. jane dee hull's endorsement of her fellow governor george w. bush over her fellow arizonan senator john mccain left bad feelings on both sides. it was bad enough that last month ms. hull agreed to give up the governor's prerogative of leading the state's delegation to the republican national convention -- after all, mr. mccain easily won the primary, and thus the right to control the state's 30-member delegation. now comes word that mr. mccain wants his wife, cindy, to lead the delegation instead. that has rankled hull supporters. the issue is to be decided at the state party convention on saturday. more than seven years after the broccoli-bashing presidency of george bush, vegetables and fruit still have not caught on with the public, despite the health benefits. more than seven years after the broccoli-bashing presidency of george bush, vegetables and fruit still have not caught on with the public, despite the health benefits. pres clinton enlists aid of unlikely ally republican repr tom delay--majority whip, fierce anti-communist and perhaps his most venomous critic on capitol hill--in campaign to win passage of decisive bill granting china membership in world trade organization; delay, who led charge to impeach clinton, finds himself im improbable role as president's chief water-carrier in all-out battle on administration's top foreign policy goal; insists his personal distate for clinton is not clouding professional task to round up necessary votes on crucial issue; odd alignment is one of many spawned by bill, opposed by labor unions and conservative religious groups but supported by farmers and some high-tech executives; support for measure grows with endorsements by federal reserve chairman alan greenspan, and former presidents carter, ford and bush; photo (m) support for the measure grew today. the federal reserve chairman, alan greenspan, publicly endorsed it. three former presidents, gerald r. ford, jimmy carter and george bush, issued a letter coordinated by the white house warning that defeat ''would be read in china as a vote for confrontation and as an argument for hunkering down, instead of continuing to reach out.'' mr. bush's son, gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, also supports the measure, but according to aides has not discussed it with mr. delay. so does vice president al gore, although he gave somewhat mixed signals earlier in the year. lynn scarlett op-ed article rebuts criticisms of gov george bush's environmental record, asserting that it is far better than activists allow; says bush has tackled environmental issues creatively, with new approach that emphasizes cooperation over conflict; focuses on allegations that texas ranks worst among states in total tons of air pollution (m) the latest polls show george w. bush just a whisker ahead of al gore in overall voter approval ratings. but when asked about environmental protection, voters give mr. gore a double-digit advantage over mr. bush. mr. gore has begun to exploit this edge; in a speech last month, for example, he said mr. bush was only ''pretending to care'' about the environment. other critics have attacked mr. bush's record, too, brandishing air quality statistics, which show that texas ranks worst among states in total tons of air pollution. the latest polls show george w. bush just a whisker ahead of al gore in overall voter approval ratings. but when asked about environmental protection, voters give mr. gore a double-digit advantage over mr. bush. mr. gore has begun to exploit this edge; in a speech last month, for example, he said mr. bush was only ''pretending to care'' about the environment. other critics have attacked mr. bush's record, too, brandishing air quality statistics, which show that texas ranks worst among states in total tons of air pollution. but as it turns out, the texas governor's record is far better than activists allow. governor bush has tackled environmental problems creatively, with a new approach that emphasizes cooperation over conflict. second, governor bush's predecessors paid relatively little attention to air quality. mr. bush backed an initiative that made texas only the third state in the nation to require pollution reductions from older power plants that had been exempted from the standards set for more modern ones. by 2003, the bush plan aims to cut nitrogen oxide emissions, a component of smog, in half. the program included some voluntary commitments by companies, as well as requirements. governor bush also expanded the ''clean industries 2000'' program, which was started in 1992 by gov. ann richards. to participate, companies committed to cutting their toxic or hazardous waste in half by this year; in exchange, they may display a special environmental logo. so far, 185 companies have together eliminated more than 43 million tons of hazardous waste and reduced energy consumption by 11.3 million kilowatt hours. through this and other programs, texas actually led the nation in reducing toxic releases in 1997, the most recent year for which figures have been reported. another conservation effort has helped farmers and ranchers develop plans for helping wildlife survive on  some 10 million acres. on state lands, mr. bush led in the creation of a privately financed endowment, bolstered by state appropriations, to restore and maintain every state park, wildlife area and fish hatchery. some environmental groups don't like mr. bush's approach, which emphasizes incentives and voluntary agreements. but what matters are  results. are pollutants being reduced? is habitat being protected? are old hazardous-waste sites getting cleaned up? on this score, governor bush's performance looks surprisingly good. vice pres al gore forcefully steps up efforts to promote permanent normalized trade relations with china as congressional vote nears; speaks more forcefully than ever in support of measure at address before annual meeting of associated press publishers in new york; photo (m) as the congressional vote on permanent normalized trade relations for china draws closer, vice president al gore is stepping up his activities to promote it. as the congressional vote on permanent normalized trade relations for china draws closer, vice president al gore is stepping up his activities to promote it. mr. gore has been tepid in his support so far for the agreement, largely because organized labor, which backs him, opposes it. but speaking up for it serves mr. gore's political purposes now by helping to counter the impression, reinforced during the controversy over elian gonzalez, that he does not take principled stands and instead panders to those whose support he seeks. at the annual meeting of associated press publishers and editors yesterday in new york, mr. gore did not raise the china issue, but was asked about it in a question-and-answer session. uncharacteristically, he delved into the reasons he believed the trade bill should pass; normally, when he mentions the issue at all, he gives it fairly short shrift. a white house spokesman, jim kennedy, said that former president george bush, the father of mr. gore's republican rival, gov. george w. bush of texas, was invited, but ''due to a scheduling conflict, he is not able to attend.'' governor bush supports the trade agreement. mr. gore's commitment to the matter has been in some doubt since he won the endorsement of the a.f.l.-c.i.o. last fall. he said then that he supported it, leading two of the organization's most powerful members, the teamsters and the united auto workers, to withhold their endorsement of his candidacy. mr. gore has tried to win over james p. hoffa, president of the teamsters union, but mr. hoffa, who is up for re-election and faces his own internal politics, has recently expressed more interest in the third-party candidacy of patrick j. buchanan, who also opposes the treaty. mr. gore has said he has called some members of congress to push them to support the treaty, but has not said how many. aides say he has made calls from his campaign plane and from his office and that if the vice president did not want to appear in the east room today, he would not do so, suggesting that he sees some political benefit in standing with president clinton on an issue that the administration has advanced as important to the economy. seldom has so much political, moral and cultural explosiveness been put into such proximity as in the first few pews of st. patrick's cathedral yesterday, where president clinton and hillary rodham clinton knelt with vice president al gore; the bush dynasty, father and son; mayor rudolph w. giuliani; gov. george e. pataki; secretary general kofi annan of the united nations; and secretary of state madeleine albright.  there were two former mayors, edward i. koch and david n. dinkins, and -- well, the idea is clear. draw all the lines of alliance, rivalry, anger and affection among those individuals and the results would be as messy as a child's scribble. seldom has so much political, moral and cultural explosiveness been put into such proximity as in the first few pews of st. patrick's cathedral yesterday, where president clinton and hillary rodham clinton knelt with vice president al gore; the bush dynasty, father and son; mayor rudolph w. giuliani; gov. george e. pataki; secretary general kofi annan of the united nations; and secretary of state madeleine albright.  there were two former mayors, edward i. koch and david n. dinkins, and -- well, the idea is clear. draw all the lines of alliance, rivalry, anger and affection among those individuals and the results would be as messy as a child's scribble. cardinal john joseph o'connor, eighth archbishop of new york, is buried beneath altar of st patrick's cathedral following solemn ritual attended by national political and religious leaders and ordinary new yorkers; cardinal bernard law of boston officiates at funeral mass; rites include procession by more than 2,000 deacons, priests, bishops, nuns and cardinals; law delivers homily praising o'connor as theologian who made his pulpit unique in history of catholic church in us; praises him as one gifted with subtle intellect, uncommon rhetorical skill, knack for dramatic gesture, sharp wit and outrageous sense of humor; is interrupted by standing ovation after invoking o'connor's insistence that church must always be unambiguously pro-life; politicians attending include pres clinton and first lady hillary rodham clinton, vice pres al gore, gov george bush, mayor rudolph giuliani and gov george pataki; some religious leaders present noted; photos (m) among the dignitaries attending the invitation-only funeral were president clinton and hillary rodham clinton, who sat beside vice president al gore and his wife, tipper gore. behind the president sat mayor rudolph w. giuliani, the first lady's rival for the united states senate seat being vacated by daniel patrick moynihan, who was also present. mrs. clinton shook hands with mayor giuliani during the ''kiss of peace'' that is part of the catholic mass. on the other side of the coffin, alongside cardinal o'connor's family, sat former president george bush, who was a friend of the cardinal's. elsewhere in the audience sat mr. bush's son, george w. bush, with his wife, laura. george w. bush -- pittsburgh, atlanta  al gore -- washington george w. bush -- pittsburgh, atlanta  al gore -- washington the mourners applauded as cardinal law tried to quiet them with a gesture of his hands. then they rose to their feet. and with the audience rose the politicians, if not quite as quickly: gov. george e. pataki, mr. giuliani, mr. clinton, hillary rodham clinton, vice president al gore, senator charles e. schumer and senator daniel patrick moynihan among them. mr. giuliani, after tugging at his jacket, even joined in the applause, though unenergetically. gov. george w. bush and his father, the former president, applauded. they were among the few politicians in the front pews who share the church's view on abortion. but they vigorously support the death penalty and are not particularly friendly to organized labor, as cardinal o'connor was. gore pushes china trade bill  vice president al gore spoke more forcefully that he customarily has for permanent normalized trade relations for china, which congress is to vote on this month. mr. gore has been tepid in backing the agreement, largely because organized labor, which backs him, opposes it. g.o.p. primary rivals to meet  gov. george w. bush and senator john mccain, left, are to meet in pittsburgh today, their first face-to-face encounter since mr. bush's victories in the super tuesday primaries. BANNON-William A. on May 8, 2000 of Mattituck, formerly of Flatbush. World War II D Day Army veteran. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Dennis and the late William. Also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Reposing at the Willaim F. Coster Funeral Home, Main Rd., route 25, Cutchogue, New York, Wednesday and Thursday 2 PM to 4 PM and 7 PM to 9 PM. Funeral Mass 11 AM, Friday at Our Lady of Good Cousel Church, Mattituck. Burial to follow in Sacred Heart Cemetery. Memorials may be sent to East End Hospice. BANNON-William A. on May 8, 2000 of Mattituck, formerly of Flatbush. World War II D Day Army veteran. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Dennis and the late William. Also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Reposing at the Willaim F. Coster Funeral Home, Main Rd., route 25, Cutchogue, New York, Wednesday and Thursday 2 PM to 4 PM and 7 PM to 9 PM. Funeral Mass 11 AM, Friday at Our Lady of Good Cousel Church, Mattituck. Burial to follow in Sacred Heart Cemetery. Memorials may be sent to East End Hospice. WEKSELBLATT-Raymond, on May 8, at 79 years. Beloved husband of the late Beverly. Devoted father of Joseph and Abbe. Dear father-in-law of Maureen and Mitchell. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Beth, Sara, Shelby and Brooke. Service today, 10 AM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (near Avenue V). WEKSELBLATT-Raymond, on May 8, at 79 years. Beloved husband of the late Beverly. Devoted father of Joseph and Abbe. Dear father-in-law of Maureen and Mitchell. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Beth, Sara, Shelby and Brooke. Service today, 10 AM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (near Avenue V). The drama in Sierra Leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 United Nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the West African bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. The rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear. The drama in Sierra Leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 United Nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the West African bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. The rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear. BANNON-William A. on May 8, 2000 of Mattituck, formerly of Flatbush. World War II D Day Army veteran. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Dennis and the late William. Also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Reposing at the Willaim F. Coster Funeral Home, Main Rd., route 25, Cutchogue, New York, Wednesday and Thursday 2 PM to 4 PM and 7 PM to 9 PM. Funeral Mass 11 AM, Friday at Our Lady of Good Cousel Church, Mattituck. Burial to follow in Sacred Heart Cemetery. Memorials may be sent to East End Hospice. BANNON-William A. on May 8, 2000 of Mattituck, formerly of Flatbush. World War II D Day Army veteran. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Dennis and the late William. Also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Reposing at the Willaim F. Coster Funeral Home, Main Rd., route 25, Cutchogue, New York, Wednesday and Thursday 2 PM to 4 PM and 7 PM to 9 PM. Funeral Mass 11 AM, Friday at Our Lady of Good Cousel Church, Mattituck. Burial to follow in Sacred Heart Cemetery. Memorials may be sent to East End Hospice. WEKSELBLATT-Raymond, on May 8, at 79 years. Beloved husband of the late Beverly. Devoted father of Joseph and Abbe. Dear father-in-law of Maureen and Mitchell. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Beth, Sara, Shelby and Brooke. Service today, 10 AM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (near Avenue V). WEKSELBLATT-Raymond, on May 8, at 79 years. Beloved husband of the late Beverly. Devoted father of Joseph and Abbe. Dear father-in-law of Maureen and Mitchell. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Beth, Sara, Shelby and Brooke. Service today, 10 AM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (near Avenue V). The drama in Sierra Leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 United Nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the West African bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. The rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear. The drama in Sierra Leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 United Nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the West African bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. The rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear. BANNON-William A. on May 8, 2000 of Mattituck, formerly of Flatbush. World War II D Day Army veteran. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Dennis and the late William. Also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Reposing at the Willaim F. Coster Funeral Home, Main Rd., route 25, Cutchogue, New York, Wednesday and Thursday 2 PM to 4 PM and 7 PM to 9 PM. Funeral Mass 11 AM, Friday at Our Lady of Good Cousel Church, Mattituck. Burial to follow in Sacred Heart Cemetery. Memorials may be sent to East End Hospice. BANNON-William A. on May 8, 2000 of Mattituck, formerly of Flatbush. World War II D Day Army veteran. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Devoted father of Dennis and the late William. Also survived by three grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Reposing at the Willaim F. Coster Funeral Home, Main Rd., route 25, Cutchogue, New York, Wednesday and Thursday 2 PM to 4 PM and 7 PM to 9 PM. Funeral Mass 11 AM, Friday at Our Lady of Good Cousel Church, Mattituck. Burial to follow in Sacred Heart Cemetery. Memorials may be sent to East End Hospice. WEKSELBLATT-Raymond, on May 8, at 79 years. Beloved husband of the late Beverly. Devoted father of Joseph and Abbe. Dear father-in-law of Maureen and Mitchell. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Beth, Sara, Shelby and Brooke. Service today, 10 AM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (near Avenue V). WEKSELBLATT-Raymond, on May 8, at 79 years. Beloved husband of the late Beverly. Devoted father of Joseph and Abbe. Dear father-in-law of Maureen and Mitchell. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Beth, Sara, Shelby and Brooke. Service today, 10 AM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (near Avenue V). The drama in Sierra Leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 United Nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the West African bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. The rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear. The drama in Sierra Leone, where a rebel group is holding 500 United Nations peacekeepers hostage, is all the more distressing because of the circumstances: the soldiers wandered into the West African bush with outdated maps, got lost, and then were captured and stripped of their weapons by the very guerrillas they were sent to disarm. The rebels also made off with armored personnel carriers and other military gear.