 bush to offer trigger locks  gov. george w. bush said he would spend $1 million a year to provide free trigger locks for handgun owners in texas and, if elected president, would push for a national initiative, at a cost of $65 million a year. conventional wisdom that million mom march for gun control is good for vice pres gore's presidential hopes does not apply in beaver county, pa, which is haven for hunters and nra, gore's sworn enemy; local democrats squirm when gore stumps for gun control, as he often does, because issue is divisive headache that drives their friends and neighbors into arms of gore's presumed republican rival, george w bush; gore victory will almost certainly require keeping places like beaver county solidly in democratic column despite issue that plays well with suburban women but infuriates many men in places like western pennsylvania; photo of jim rooker, former pittsburgh pirates pitcher who now owns tavern; repr bart stupak, one chagrined democrat, notes that gore supports gun measures that go beyond simple safety devices to encompass photo licenses for gun buyers, ban on cheap handguns and one-per-month limit on handgun purchases; it has become conventional wisdom among democratic strategists that the million mom march for gun control on sunday will be good for vice president al gore in his quest for the presidency. but the conventional wisdom does not apply here in beaver county. nestled in the shadows of shuttered steel mills 20 miles northwest of pittsburgh, beaver county has been a democratic bastion since the new deal. it is also a haven for hunters, second amendment devotees and the national rifle association, mr. gore's sworn enemy. it has become conventional wisdom among democratic strategists that the million mom march for gun control on sunday will be good for vice president al gore in his quest for the presidency. but the conventional wisdom does not apply here in beaver county. nestled in the shadows of shuttered steel mills 20 miles northwest of pittsburgh, beaver county has been a democratic bastion since the new deal. it is also a haven for hunters, second amendment devotees and the national rifle association, mr. gore's sworn enemy. so when mr. gore stumps for gun control, as he often does these days, many democrats here, particularly men, squirm. to them, the issue is a divisive headache that drives their friends and neighbors into the arms of mr. gore's presumed republican rival, gov. george w. bush of texas, a frequent critic of gun control. ''i get so frustrated when i hear al gore talk about gun control,'' said jim rooker, a 57-year-old former pitcher for the pittsburgh pirates who now owns a tavern in beaver county and is active in the local democratic party. ''there isn't any question that he'll lose votes here if he keeps it up.'' for mr. gore, winning this fall will almost certainly require keeping places like beaver county solidly in the democratic column, political analysts say. but therein lies the risk of gun control: while the issue plays well among suburban women, it infuriates many men in places like western pennsylvania. mr. gore already trails mr. bush among men by double-digit margins, recent polls show. but to the chagrin of democrats like mr. stupak, mr. gore supports gun control proposals that go well beyond simple safety measures like trigger locks. he would require states to create photo licenses for buyers of new handguns. he would ban the cheap handguns known as saturday night specials and limit handgun purchases to one a month. he supports lawsuits by counties and cities against gun makers. and he accuses mr. bush of being a pawn of the rifle association. mr. bush, by contrast, contends that the federal government should enforce existing gun laws rather than enact new ones, a basic tenet of the n.r.a. as governor, he signed legislation that allows people to carry concealed weapons into churches, among other places, and that prohibits municipalities from directly suing gun makers. recently, he suggested that he would also sign anti-lawsuit legislation as president. [mr. bush announced yesterday that he would spend $1 million a year to provide free trigger locks for handgun owners in texas and would push for a similar national initiative.] ''bush is in the safety zone on guns for pennsylvania voters,'' said g. terry madonna, director of the keystone poll at millersville university in pennsylvania. ''i think supporting lawsuits against manufacturers is problematic for gore in pennsylvania because it raises the prospect that guns could be outlawed.'' what further complicates the issue for mr. gore is that there are many places like beaver county in the necklace of northern states that democratic strategists say he needs to win, including pennsylvania, ohio, illinois and michigan. in recent visits to those states, he has tended to avoid mentioning his positions on gun control. mr. gore and bill clinton won those states in 1992, when the economy dwarfed all other issues, and in 1996, when the race was a rout. but this year's contest is expected to be close, meaning gun control could emerge as a significant factor. and history has shown the n.r.a. to be better at mobilizing its voters than gun control proponents have been at energizing theirs. unlike mr. gore, mr. bush has said little on gun control except when pressed by reporters, apparently concerned that the issue poses risks for him, as well. clearly, gun control is widely supported not only in democratic cities but also many republican suburbs. and it is popular in california, the largest state, and new jersey, an important swing state. but the greatest risk for mr. bush on gun control is among women. most polls show that women, by significantly higher margins than men, favor gun control and distrust the n.r.a. the higher the income and education level, the more supportive women are of restrictions on guns. ''the arithmetic on guns works out in gore's favor,'' says geoffrey garin, a democratic pollster. ''the pro-gun vote is primarily made up of white men who vote republican on a pretty routine basis. the voters who are more in play tend to be suburban women who vote republican in some cases, but who get driven away from republican candidates on the basis of gun control.'' sandra miller describes herself as a lapsed democrat who votes increasingly republican. a resident of one of pittsburgh's affluent suburbs, ms. miller dislikes mr. gore, calling him ''a real politician who turns whichever way the wind blows.'' ''they are too powerful,'' she said. asked if she might vote against a politician, including mr. bush, based solely on his gun control record, she said, ''yes.'' it is because of women like sandra miller that democratic strategists think the million mom march will be so useful for mr. gore. by emphasizing motherhood, the event will unite women from both parties behind the democratic agenda without evoking partisan politics, the strategists say. there are, of course, some democrats in beaver county who support mr. gore's gun control positions and do not worry that the issue will drag him down. ''the big issues are medicare and social security,'' said robert standish, 61, a debt consultant and local democratic activist. indeed, chances are good that mr. gore will carry beaver county. but the question is whether he can win it with enough votes to offset mr. bush's gains in less democratic districts. gun control is likely to be a factor in determining that level of enthusiasm. take dominic demarco, a 65-year-old retiree from the beaver falls area. mr. demarco is a fan of president clinton, and thinks mr. gore should be given the chance to continue current policies. but do not get him started on gun control. there are 4.9 million democrats and 3 million republicans registered to vote in new york state. republican candidates cannot win if their ideology undermines their appeal to moderate voters. until recently, republican leaders hoped that mr. giuliani's popularity would overcome george w. bush's limited appeal in the state. a knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. and in ''screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation marx brothers farce, danny devito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. as grover cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, mr. devito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease. a knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. and in ''screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation marx brothers farce, danny devito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. as grover cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, mr. devito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease. george w. bush -- prairie view, tex.  al gore -- washington george w. bush -- prairie view, tex.  al gore -- washington gov. george w. bush of texas, the prospective presidential nominee, could probably ensure either victory or defeat for the plan at the national convention. but karl rove, mr. bush's chief political strategist, said on thursday that the governor would not take any stand, now or later. the formal position of vice president al gore's presidential campaign, and therefore that of the democratic party, is that the current system has brought democrats victory in 1992 and 1996 and thus needs no change, especially one that might annoy one state party or another. john mason of nevada even argued that the more drawn-out schedule would lead to nicer campaigns. knowing that the process this year would effectively be over by march 7, mr. mason said, mr. bush and his main rival, senator john mccain of arizona, had an incentive to try for ''a death stroke'' against each other. vice pres al gore has raised $2.4 million for democratic national committee in last week, bringing total since march to $15.8 million, not including $5 million he helped raise with pres clinton in hollywood and new york (s) gore leads cash parade -- vice president al gore continues to pull in the cash for his party. this week he raised $2.4 million for the democratic national committee at six dinners. that brings the total that he has raised for the party since the end of march to $15.8 million, not including the $5 million he helped raise with president clinton in hollywood ($2.8 million) and new york ($2.2 million). the events this week included two dinners each, back to back, in manhattan, dallas and los angeles. next up is a fund-raiser for the party on may 24 in washington, where the host, terry mcauliffe, has promised a record-breaking single-night haul of more than $21 million. gore leads cash parade -- vice president al gore continues to pull in the cash for his party. this week he raised $2.4 million for the democratic national committee at six dinners. that brings the total that he has raised for the party since the end of march to $15.8 million, not including the $5 million he helped raise with president clinton in hollywood ($2.8 million) and new york ($2.2 million). the events this week included two dinners each, back to back, in manhattan, dallas and los angeles. next up is a fund-raiser for the party on may 24 in washington, where the host, terry mcauliffe, has promised a record-breaking single-night haul of more than $21 million. bush honing foreign policy skills -- gov. george w. bush of texas, ever eager to burnish his foreign policy credentials in the presidential campaign, plans to attend a conference of american and mexican governors from border states next month in sacramento. the event is being organized by gov. gray davis of california, a democrat who is an ally of vice president al gore, mr. bush's expected rival in the presidential race. governors bush, gray and jane dee hull, an arizona republican, will meet on june 1 and june 2 with their counterparts from six mexican border states. a spokeswoman for mr. bush, mindy tucker, said yesterday that the agenda included education, economic development and the environment. last month, mr. bush met with president ernesto zedillo of mexico at the dedication of the eight-lane, $128 million world trade bridge in nuevo laredo, just over the border from texas. primary overhaul endorsed  republican party leaders endorsed a plan to prevent future presidential primary contests from being decided as early as this year's race between senator john mccain and gov. george w. bush. vice pres gore, in oregon, says he will work for quick resolution on breaching snake river dams to protect salmon; sen ron wyden reports gore also told him he opposes state law allowing assisted suicides, but would not interfere with doctor's ability to manage patient's pain; photo of gore in portland (m) vice president al gore stepped into two contentious local issues in oregon today, saying that he would ''work for a quick resolution'' on whether to breach the snake river dams to protect endangered salmon, and, according to a key democrat, saying he was opposed to the state's law allowing assisted suicide. mr. gore read a statement on the salmon issue that did not hint at his own view. vice president al gore stepped into two contentious local issues in oregon today, saying that he would ''work for a quick resolution'' on whether to breach the snake river dams to protect endangered salmon, and, according to a key democrat, saying he was opposed to the state's law allowing assisted suicide. mr. gore read a statement on the salmon issue that did not hint at his own view. in the past mr. gore has said that the issue of assisted suicide should be left to the states. senator wyden met mr. gore at the airport here, and they sat together in the back of the vice-presidential limousine on their way to portland community college, where mr. gore was giving a speech on social security. mr. gore was not available to reporters to clarify his views. ''that's an example of an issue that should be left to the states,'' mr. gore said on april 20. ''i think that states should have the discretion to explore this new set of issues involving what role doctors should play when a patient is in extremis at the end of life. you know, any family that's been in that kind of situation knows that doctors sometimes have experience that could be brought to bear usefully. you know, there are so many different situations, i think that states ought to deal with that on their own.'' local democrats have been urging mr. gore to take a leadership role on some of these polarizing local matters. he was greeted today by a front-page article in the oregonian in which the governor, john kitzhaber, who supported mr. gore's opponent, former senator bill bradley, in the democratic presidential primaries, said he did not understand why mr. gore had not spoken out on the salmon issue. the article also said gore advisers were insistent that the vice president would not speak out on the matter because he wanted to focus attention on social security. before his speech on social security, mr. gore read a statement about salmon, criticizing his republican opponent's position on the issue, but saying that his own mind was not made up. ''unfortunately, gov. george w. bush has prejudged the outcome,'' mr. gore said in the statement he read to about 200 people, referring to mr. bush's statement last year that he would oppose any effort to breach the dams. ''i feel it is irresponsible to make a decision or draw a conclusion without consulting all of the parties involved and without utilizing hard science,'' mr. gore said. bob applegate, a spokesman for governor kitzhaber, said he believed that the statement was ''extremely helpful'' and he praised mr. gore for suggesting he would take a leadership role in helping to resolve the matter. oregon, which has voted democratic recently, has been less hospitable to mr. gore than it has been to president clinton. recent polls here show mr. bush with a slight edge. gov george w bush says he is ready to spend $1 million to provide free trigger locks to handgun owners in texas, and would push for similar program on national scale if he is elected president; concedes announcement is linked to million mom march for gun control; photo; pres clinton announces justice department grants of $300,000 to smith & wesson and f n manufacturing to help develop 'smart guns' that only owners can fire; says during television appearance that he is skeptical about bush's offer given his longtime ties to nra (m) george w. bush announced today that he would spend $1 million a year as governor of texas to provide free trigger locks for handgun owners in the state and would push for a similar national initiative, at a cost of $65 million a year, if he was elected president. although mr. bush had not previously demonstrated much enthusiasm for a government role in promoting trigger locks and had stressed that they were not a panacea for gun violence, he presented his new approach as a way ''to be common-sensical about how we deal with gun safety.'' george w. bush announced today that he would spend $1 million a year as governor of texas to provide free trigger locks for handgun owners in the state and would push for a similar national initiative, at a cost of $65 million a year, if he was elected president. although mr. bush had not previously demonstrated much enthusiasm for a government role in promoting trigger locks and had stressed that they were not a panacea for gun violence, he presented his new approach as a way ''to be common-sensical about how we deal with gun safety.'' ''like them, i'm concerned about gun violence in our society,'' mr. bush said this morning in an appearance on the nbc news television program ''today.'' the appearance was sought and arranged by his aides with the knowledge that president clinton would be talking about gun control today on ''good morning america,'' on abc. the president used his appearance on ''good morning america'' to express skepticism about mr. bush's announcement, and reiterated assertions by himself and vice president al gore that the governor is a longtime friend of the national rifle association who is merely engaging in  a political makeover. ''you have to understand what's going on here,'' mr. clinton said. ''there was a report in the newspaper last week that a lobbyist from the n.r.a. said they would have an office in the white house if governor bush was elected.'' mr. clinton was referring to a snippet of videotape, released as a television commercial by the advocacy group handgun control, in which kayne robinson, the n.r.a.'s first vice president and also iowa republican chairman, made that boast in a closed meeting with other members of the association in february. mr. bush has dismissed mr. robinson's remark as untrue, and did so again today. the dueling comments by mr. bush and mr. clinton were among the many competing messages today as the million mom march approached. television news programs were crowded with appeals from advocates on both sides of the issue. mr. bush's announcement about trigger locks marked the latest step in a striking evolution of his position on them. it also suggested an awareness of gun control's potential as a potent issue in the 2000 elections and a concern with mr. gore's ability to portray the governor as an opponent of sensible restrictions on firearms. mr. gore and his aides consistently draw attention to certain aspects of mr. bush's record on guns, most notably a 1995 law permitting texans with proper training and licenses to carry concealed handguns. mr. bush also signed into law last year a measure making it extremely difficult for texas cities and counties to sue gun manufacturers, and he has indicated support for similar legislation on the federal level. as for weapons and child safety, mr. bush did support a 1995 texas law that held parents criminally liable if their firearms ended up in the hands of children and caused injury as a result. but as recently as last year, he said he opposed the mandatory sale of trigger locks or other child safety devices with handguns and supported voluntary measures instead. mr. bush's aides said today that his plan to distribute free trigger locks was consistent with his belief that it would be most effective and plausible to encourage voluntary use of them. the texas program, in which gun owners will be able to obtain the locks at local police and fire stations, is to be financed by $5 million over five years in discretionary spending by the governor. and mr. bush proposed that the federal government make $325 million in matching funds available over five years for state and local governments that adopt similar programs. although the drumbeat for enhanced gun control has grown louder and mr. gore supports a wider array of new measures than mr. bush, it is unclear who holds the political advantage. several public opinion polls in recent months suggested that more americans trusted mr. bush to handle the issue correctly than trusted mr. gore. but a new abc news poll, conducted just after the n.r.a. official's comments about a bush white house became public last week, showed mr. gore with an edge, 46 percent to 38 percent. that telephone survey, of 1,068 adults interviewed from sunday though wednesday, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. increasing access to clean needles decreases the incidence of blood-borne infection without creating new drug use. needle exchange and pharmacy sales work. that is why every established medical and scientific body to study the issue -- including the national academy of sciences, the american medical association and the clinton and bush aids advisory commissions -- concurs on the efficacy of improved access to sterile syringes. lincoln p bloomfield jr letter endorses fairness of judging george w bush's readiness for presidency by his 'experience' as texas governor gov. george w. bush's readiness to assume the presidency should indeed be judged on his ''experience'' as texas governor and as a private-sector executive who has faced a measure of both failure and success (editorial, may 7). you say texas has a ''weak-governor system,'' but it is vice president al gore and his supporters who unhesitatingly attribute texas's policies on the environment, capital punishment, gun control and other matters to mr. bush. gov. george w. bush's readiness to assume the presidency should indeed be judged on his ''experience'' as texas governor and as a private-sector executive who has faced a measure of both failure and success (editorial, may 7). you say texas has a ''weak-governor system,'' but it is vice president al gore and his supporters who unhesitatingly attribute texas's policies on the environment, capital punishment, gun control and other matters to mr. bush. as for mr. gore, any legislator or federal policy official is acquainted with a range of issues. but beyond casting votes in congress, he does not appear ever to have occupied a position, public or private, where the ''buck stops.'' mr. bush's experience as accountable decision maker, public and private, exceeds that of mr. gore, as well as that of bill clinton in 1992. A knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. And in ''Screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation Marx Brothers farce, Danny DeVito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. As Grover Cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, Mr. DeVito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease. A knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. And in ''Screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation Marx Brothers farce, Danny DeVito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. As Grover Cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, Mr. DeVito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease. A knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. And in ''Screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation Marx Brothers farce, Danny DeVito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. As Grover Cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, Mr. DeVito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease. A knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. And in ''Screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation Marx Brothers farce, Danny DeVito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. As Grover Cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, Mr. DeVito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease. A knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. And in ''Screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation Marx Brothers farce, Danny DeVito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. As Grover Cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, Mr. DeVito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease. A knack for conjuring fun in a laughter-free vacuum may be the ultimate test of a comic performer. And in ''Screwed,'' a confusedly misconceived hybrid of interracial buddy comedy and imitation Marx Brothers farce, Danny DeVito is the only cast member who succeeds in making something out of the movie's nothing of a screenplay. As Grover Cleaver, a bushy-haired undertaker who gets drawn into a kidnapping scheme, Mr. DeVito huffs and mugs and waddles through his role like a happy mad scientist whose maniacally gleaming eyes suggest he could be imagining a chorus line of lab rats doing a striptease.