 at the white house today, the spokesman joe lockhart said president clinton will hold individual meetings this week with many of the undecided lawmakers -- about 25 to 30 in both the democratic and republican camps -- and step up a campaign that has involved mr. clinton, vice president gore and cabinet members who are calling wavering legislators. corn plunges after new forecasts predict showers in part of us midwest where long drought has threatened crop production; in chicago, corn for july delivery falls 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel; graph; chart (s) corn prices fall. corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. in chicago, corn for july delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. corn prices fall. corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. in chicago, corn for july delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. news analysis of differing proposals to maintain solvency of social security, laid out by republican presidential candidate gov george w bush and democratic rival vice pres al gore (m) in reopening the debate today over how best to maintain the solvency of the retirement system as the population ages, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush each challenged one of those principles. in reopening the debate today over how best to maintain the solvency of the retirement system as the population ages, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush each challenged one of those principles. taking one of the biggest political risks of the presidential campaign so far, mr. bush proposed allowing individual workers to invest a part of their payroll taxes through private accounts. his plan would give workers an opportunity to capture some of the riches that wall street creates, but would also leave those workers to suffer the financial consequences if their timing or judgment is off. mr. gore wants to maintain the guaranteed nature of the social security benefit, allowing it to remain a bulwark against poverty in old age. but through a somewhat complicated mechanism, mr. gore is calling for the bill to be paid in part over the long run out of general tax revenues -- in effect, heaving the problem onto the shoulders of taxpayers three decades from now. like most democrats, mr. gore is comfortable with government as a guarantor and sees social security as a collective commitment that binds the generations. like most republicans, mr. bush is dedicated to giving more power and responsibility to individuals. in elevating the call for private accounts to the presidential campaign, mr. bush is asking for a mandate to break the deadlock. although mr. gore's approach would eventually require a fundamental change in  the nature of the system as well, the vice president has cast himself as the defender of a program that has proved to be perhaps the most popular and most effective of any administered in washington. it is already clear that the clash between the two candidates will be supercharged, with mr. gore in particular unleashing a sustained attack on mr. bush's position. and the more heated the clash, the greater the risk that the debate will so polarize voters and unnerve politicians that it blocks progress for years. many democrats and some republicans wonder why mr. bush has chosen to wade into such a polarizing issue. ''politically it's not'' a great idea, said senator judd gregg, a republican from new hampshire who is one of the most prominent advocates of adding private accounts to social security. ''but it's a genuine act of leadership,'' senator gregg said, ''because if he's successful, he will have broken the iron triangle of demagoguery -- gore, gephardt and the labor unions. and he'll have a national mandate to do something in this area.'' his reference was to representative richard a. gephardt of missouri, the house democratic leader. ''the bush campaign is betting that young people will end up voting on this issue,'' said geoff garin, a democratic pollster. ''but recent history is pretty clear that the people who vote on social security tend to be in their 50's and older, and their vote is based on making sure that the system that's protecting their parents is there to protect them.'' mr. bush is trying to turn attention to the trade-off at the core of mr. gore's plan, which is built around eliminating the $3.5 trillion in national debt held by the public and capturing the interest savings for social security. when all the complexities are stripped away, mr. gore's plan would leave the government in financially sound condition -- but would also transfer to future generations of taxpayers the burden of keeping social security solvent. ''the gore plan will eventually require a 25 percent increase in income taxes -- the largest in our history -- or a substantial reduction in benefits,'' mr. bush said. mr. gore is trying to keep the debate focused on the risks inherent  in investing social security money in the financial markets -- and is emphasizing that mr. bush's plan would leave less money to pay down the debt. the bush plan ''would weaken our national economy,'' mr. gore said, and create the risk of millions of retirees ''left without enough to make ends meet.'' mr. gore said one thing today that mr. bush would no doubt agree with. ''there is a fundamental difference on this issue in this election,'' mr. gore said, ''which offers the country the most critical choice on social security since it was first enacted in 1935.'' ''bush and gore proposals'' social security faces a financial shortfall as the baby boom generation ages. based on current estimates, the retirement system would spend its reserves by 2037, leaving it able to pay only 75 percent of promised benefits after that point. to deal with that problem, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush are proposing different solutions. the gore plan starting in 2011, mr. gore would begin transferring to social security an amount equal to the interest saved through reduction of the public debt. the amount would start at around $100 billion a year, and would grow to more than $200 billion a year by 2015. by doing so, mr. gore's plan would extend social security's solvency to 2050 without any cuts in benefits. the money mr. gore would transfer into social security would not be cash, but instead i.o.u.'s that would have to be paid out of general tax revenues. in that way, mr. gore's plan would obligate taxpayers decades in the future to pay to keep the system afloat out of general revenues from income taxes -- a change from the current system under which social security is financed out of payroll taxes. the bush plan mr. bush's approach is built around the idea that the only alternative to cutting benefits or raising taxes is to increase the rate of return on the money going into the social security system. the best way to accomplish that goal, in his view, is to allow all workers to invest part of their payroll taxes in private accounts. mr. bush has provided few details, saying that the specifics would have to be worked out in bipartisan negotiations. there are a variety of approaches to establishing individual investment accounts, and most would use about 2 percentage points of the 12.4 percent payroll tax that goes to pay social security benefits. any investment plan that used 2 percentage points of the payroll tax would use about $1 trillion of the social security surplus over the next decade. that money would otherwise go to debt reduction, so mr. bush's plan would leave the nation with a larger debt than mr. gore's plan. historically, investing in the stock market has yielded a high rate of return, better than 7 percent from 1926 through 1997, according to the bush campaign. but there have been long periods when the market has been down, and not every investor has chosen the right stocks. investing in safer alternatives, like bonds, reduces the rate of return along with the risk. and democrats point out that most workers are already subject to considerable risk through 401(k)'s and other retirement accounts. republican presidential candidate gov george w bush, casting overhaul of social security system as 'test of presidential candidates,' proposes fundamental change in retirement system that would allow workers to choose how to invest some of their payroll taxes; formal call for introduction of individual retirement accounts begins debate that could dominate campaign since he and vice pres al gore differ sharply over how to meet fiscal challenge posed by retirement of baby boomers; bush says in address at center for elderly in rancho cucamonga, calif, that difference between himself and gore is that gore trusts government to manage retirement, while he trusts individual americans; even though social security has long been considered 'third rail' of politics, bush is gambling that in new economy with nearly 50 percent of american households owning stock proposal will prove appealing; gore responds by questioning what what would happen to social security investments if economic prosperity abated; has proposed extending life of social security until 2054 by devoting interest saved in paying down debt to retirement system; bush also say he backs bipartisan proposal for medicare that would reshape it by giving beneficiaries fixed amounts of money to choose from various health plans; photos (m) casting the overhaul of the social security system as a ''test of presidential candidates,'' gov. george w. bush today proposed a fundamental change in the retirement system that would allow workers to choose how to invest some of their payroll taxes. with his formal call for the introduction of individual retirement accounts, mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, began a debate that could dominate the campaign. he and vice president al gore differ sharply over how to meet the fiscal challenge posed by the retirement of baby boomers. casting the overhaul of the social security system as a ''test of presidential candidates,'' gov. george w. bush today proposed a fundamental change in the retirement system that would allow workers to choose how to invest some of their payroll taxes. with his formal call for the introduction of individual retirement accounts, mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, began a debate that could dominate the campaign. he and vice president al gore differ sharply over how to meet the fiscal challenge posed by the retirement of baby boomers. although social security has long been considered the ''third rail'' of politics that a candidate touches at his peril, mr. bush took a gamble that in the new economy, with nearly 50 percent of american households now owning stock, his proposal would prove appealing. ''there is a fundamental difference between my opponent and me,'' mr. bush said in an appearance at a center for the elderly here. ''he trusts the government to manage our retirement. i trust individual americans.'' [excerpts, page a18.] mr. bush also embraced a bipartisan proposal for medicare that would reshape it by giving beneficiaries fixed amounts of money to choose from various health plans. a few hours later outside philadelphia, mr. gore came out squarely against the plan, calling it dangerous for individual taxpayers and for the economy overall. ''if we turn the social security system into a system of winners and losers,'' he said, ''we will be jeopardizing retirement security for too many americans, and in the end we will all have to pay to make up the differences.'' shifting some of the payroll tax into individual retirement accounts would amount to the most far-reaching change in social security since its inception in the depression. as social security has worked for decades, current retirees are paid from the payroll taxes of current workers; under the bush plan, workers would be able to use a portion of their payroll taxes and invest them for their own retirement. mr. bush argued that it would both provide an infusion of cash to make the system solvent and give people ''the security of ownership.'' but he largely skirted specifics, preferring to talk about broad principles. it was unclear, for instance, exactly how much money people could set aside for individual accounts and what sort of investment options they would have. mr. bush did say the investments would have to be in ''steady, reliable funds,'' adding that ''there will be no fly-by-night speculators or day trading.'' much of the texas republican's address was devoted to drawing a contrast between himself and vice president gore, casting himself as a leader who would pave the way for a bipartisan agreement on a pressing policy matter. ''i am here with a message for america and to put my opponent on notice,'' mr. bush said. ''the days of spreading fear and panic are over. the days of delaying, dividing, demagoguing are over. when i am elected, this generation and this president will solve social security.'' he said that president clinton and mr. gore had squandered eight years when they could have addressed the problems posed by the baby boomers. ''at a time for leadership, for long-term thinking, my opponent proposes a band-aid approach,'' mr. bush said. ''he says and i quote, 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it.' but in the lifetime of some people in this room, it will be broke and we must fix it. with every day of delay this becomes more difficult.'' mr. gore has in large part staked his candidacy on the health of the economy and made paying down the debt the centerpiece of his economic plan. he has proposed extending the life of social security until 2054 by devoting the interest saved in paying down the debt to the retirement system. mr. gore, in his own appearance, asked what would happen to investments if economic prosperity abated. ''today, when wall street is booming, i know that plan sounds appealing,'' he said. ''it probably sounds like an easy way to make more money and have more control over your retirement. but in reality, the bush privatization plan would weaken our economy and undermine the basic guarantee of a minimum basic retirement.'' asked later about his lack of detail, mr. bush called his speech ''pretty darned detailed to be talking about a framework to get something done.'' his aides said he had avoided specifics because hillary rodham clinton's abortive effort to craft a plan for universal health coverage had shown that being locked into one plan was a recipe for legislative disaster on a complicated issue. but the lack of specifics on matters like what percentage of payroll tax would go to accounts and what age group would see the change opened mr. bush to charges that he was masking some of the hard choices ahead and trying to sidestep questions about how he could afford the transition as well as his sweeping call for a $1.3 trillion tax cut in the next decade. supporters of mr. bush and mr. gore feuded all day over which plan was more risky and which would entail more of a shift of general tax revenue into social security. such a shift would require cuts in other programs or could lead to tax increases. the vice president asserted that mr. bush's plan would make it nearly impossible to pay down the national debt. ''by leaving us with a multitrillion dollar debt for as far as the eye can see, the bush plan could trigger higher interest rates and slower long-term growth,'' mr. gore said. ''that undermines our chance to meet other challenges, such as keeping medicare solvent or providing an affordable prescription drug benefit for seniors.'' mr. gore has been lagging in recent polls and his advisers said privately they were pleased that mr. bush had taken on social security because it set up a clear policy difference between the candidates and provided a big target to shoot at, much like former senator bill bradley's universal health care plan in the democratic primaries. indeed, mr. gore intends to talk about social security two more times this week, before younger voters at fordham university in new york on tuesday and before older voters in florida on wednesday. mr. bush's advisers, however, believe that the politics of social security is changing and that their plan will appeal to younger voters who are comfortable with the market and doubt that the government will provide a secure retirement. today, mr. bush also expressed support for an approach to medicare that had been drafted by a bipartisan commission, which would have converted medicare into an arena for public and private competition. the approach would have given each beneficiary a fixed amount of cash to use when choosing from public and private health care plans. mr. bush said the elderly should be given a choice of health plans to buy, including one providing prescription drug coverage. he said medicare itself should provide full drug coverage for the most low-income elderly. excerpts from remarks by republican presidential candidate gov george w bush and democratic rival vice pres al gore at senior citizens center in california laying out proposals for social security (m) following are excerpts from the prepared text of gov. george w. bush's speech yesterday about social security and medicare, as provided by the bush campaign. mr. bush spoke at a center for the elderly in rancho cucamonga, calif. also included are excerpts from the prepared text of vice president al gore's speech on those issues yesterday at beaver college in glenside, pa. mr. bush's remarks following are excerpts from the prepared text of gov. george w. bush's speech yesterday about social security and medicare, as provided by the bush campaign. mr. bush spoke at a center for the elderly in rancho cucamonga, calif. also included are excerpts from the prepared text of vice president al gore's speech on those issues yesterday at beaver college in glenside, pa. mr. bush's remarks at a time for leadership, for long-term thinking, my opponent proposes a band-aid approach. he says, ''if it ain't broke, don't fix it.'' but in the lifetime of some people in this room, it will be broke, and we must fix it. with every day of delay this becomes more difficult. for eight years, the clinton-gore administration has failed to act. and now al gore wants to pass the burden on to future generations. the gore plan will eventually require either a 25 percent increase in income taxes, the largest in our history, or a substantial reduction in benefits. . . . mr. gore's remarks george w. bush outlined his approach in a speech this morning. we still don't know all the details of his plan, but we do know that he is proposing to partially privatize social security. but in reality, the bush social security privatization plan would weaken our national economy and undermine the basic guarantee of a minimum decent retirement. it would weaken our economy because it would make it impossible to pay down our national debt. it would cost about $1 trillion over 10 years to meet today's obligations through social security while allowing people to set up these individual accounts. and at the same time, governor bush is proposing a huge tax cut of nearly $2 trillion. the numbers just don't add up, and under the bush plan, a serious reduction of our national debt is simply impossible. . . . the bush social security privatization plan also threatens the social security guarantee for future generations of retirees. that guarantee is the whole purpose of social security. yet under the bush plan, you could lose some or all of the money you invest, and millions could be left without enough to make ends meet. today, in the dallas morning news, governor bush was asked whether his plan would guarantee that future beneficiaries would receive no less than they would have under today's system. his answer, ''maybe, maybe not.'' in other words, governor bush admits that his plan takes the ''security'' out of social security. well, i believe you deserve a guarantee, not a ''maybe.'' george w. bush -- portland, ore., and seattle.  al gore -- nashville and new york george w. bush -- portland, ore., and seattle.  al gore -- nashville and new york new york times/cbs news poll finds while many americans find vice pres al gore's stands on issues more appealing, he is not as well liked or considered as commanding a leader as republican rival gov george w bush; bush has emerged as preferred candidate across demographic spectrum, including among critical groups of catholic, independents and northeasterners that voted democratic in 1996; voters are so lukewarm toward gore that he is widely perceived as loser in november by ratio of nearly 2 to 1; bush leads gore among all voters by 8 percentage points, 47 to 39; holds wide advantage among men, 50 to 36 percentage points, and 44 to 42 percent among women; gore's lagging ratings seem more related to personality than policy; he is seen favorably by 34 percent of voters and unfavorably by 36 percent, compared with bush who is favored by 40 percent of voters and opposed by 28; bush is viewed as more of leader among registered voters; 63 percent say he has strong leadership qualities, compared with 53 percent for gore; photos; charts; graphs (m) while many americans find vice president al gore's stands on issues more appealing, he is not as well liked or considered as commanding a leader as gov. george w. bush, the latest new york times/cbs news poll shows. mr. gore's lackluster personal favorability ratings may help explain why mr. bush has emerged at this early stage as the preferred candidate across the demographic spectrum, including three critical groups that voted democratic in 1996: catholics, independents and northeasterners. voters polled, in fact, are so lukewarm toward mr. gore that he is widely perceived as a loser in november: by a ratio of nearly 2 to 1, they expect mr. bush to capture the white house. while many americans find vice president al gore's stands on issues more appealing, he is not as well liked or considered as commanding a leader as gov. george w. bush, the latest new york times/cbs news poll shows. mr. gore's lackluster personal favorability ratings may help explain why mr. bush has emerged at this early stage as the preferred candidate across the demographic spectrum, including three critical groups that voted democratic in 1996: catholics, independents and northeasterners. voters polled, in fact, are so lukewarm toward mr. gore that he is widely perceived as a loser in november: by a ratio of nearly 2 to 1, they expect mr. bush to capture the white house. despite mr. bush's advantages six months before election day, mr. gore may be heartened that vice presidents are often overshadowed by the presidents they serve until they can distinguish themselves on a national stage at their nominating convention. in fact, at this time 12 years ago, mr. bush's father, then the vice president, trailed michael s. dukakis by 10 points, but went on to a lopsided victory in november. voters also seemed skeptical of mr. bush's proposed tax cut of $483 billion over five years -- a measure that mr. gore has condemned as a ''risky tax scheme.'' even 57 percent of people who said they planned to vote for mr. bush were uncertain of the effect of that proposal. mr. bush will also have to cautiously navigate roiling factions in his own ranks. three of every 10 republican voters polled said that if the governor picks a running mate who supports legalized abortion they would be less likely to support him. about a third of all voters said religious conservatives carry too much influence in the republican party. perhaps the most promising news for mr. gore was that he scored well with voters on issues they said were at the top of their agenda, like health care, education and social security. he was also seen as more caring than mr. bush, despite the governor's slogan that he is a ''compassionate conservative.'' given that his issues are popular and that the economy seems hearty, the nagging difficulty that has confounded the vice president's advisers and many democrats is why his overall ratings are not more competitive with mr. bush. among all voters, mr. bush led mr. gore by 8 percentage points, 47 to 39. mr. bush held a wide advantage among men, 50 to 36 percentage points; among women, mr. gore drew 42 percent, mr. bush, 44 percent. the vice president's lagging ratings appear to have more to do with personality than policy. mr. gore was seen favorably by 34 percent of registered voters and unfavorably by 36 percent. by contrast, mr. bush was seen favorably by 40 percent and unfavorably by 28 percent. a related problem that has dogged mr. gore is that mr. bush is viewed as more of a leader. fifty-three percent of registered voters in the new poll said mr. gore had strong leadership qualities; 63 percent said the same thing about mr. bush. the contrast is striking, particularly since mr. gore has been an elected official since 1976, when he was elected to the house from tennessee; mr. bush was elected governor, his first office, in 1994. that said, mr. gore has spent the past seven years in the shadow of a president who consistently draws high ratings for the job he has done in office. several people who responded to the poll explained in follow-up interviews that there were not specific issues on which they split sharply with mr. gore. rather, they often cited more intangible personal factors. ''gore has not really shown a lot of leadership qualities or abilities to be in a position to run our nation,'' said ken bogler, 27, a labor representative from somerset, n.j., who is an independent. ''it's a presence, really. the way he carries himself, the way he speaks, does not seem presidential.'' vera jeane, 71, a retired nurse from bay city, tex., who is a democrat, put it this way: ''al gore acts as if he's not sure what he's thinking, as if he doesn't have a mind of his own. he doesn't seem to be strong enough in his opinions and as a leader to be president. bush seems to be a stronger man with more definitive opinions. and i think he would make a better leader.'' tony coelho, mr. gore's campaign chairman, said he was not discouraged by such critiques and insisted that voters would defect from mr. bush when his policy stands are articulated in detail. citing how mr. gore has inched up in the polls since last year, mr. coelho added: ''we've made up a lot of points with george bush. i'm not worried about george bush at this point.'' mr. bush, in particular, has made little headway in trumpeting his programs for cutting taxes and overhauling the social security system. only 9 percent of registered voters in the poll said they knew a great deal about mr. bush's tax blueprint; 58 percent said they had no idea whether his plan would help or hurt the economy. in a finding that raises questions about the social security proposal mr. bush discussed yesterday, those polled were closely divided over whether individuals should be allowed to invest portions of their social security taxes on their own. when asked to put aside their presidential preferences and focus on issues, mr. gore was considered more capable in tackling social security and education, traditional democratic strengths. voters also identified stark ideological differences between the candidates. for all the efforts by mr. bush and mr. gore to court moderates, voters did not see them as moderates. forty-three percent of registered voters said they thought of mr. bush as a conservative while 34 percent said they thought he was a moderate. similarly, 43 percent cast mr. gore as a liberal, while 30 percent said he was more a moderate. mr. bush has been unable to shake the idea advanced by gun control advocates that the national rifle association would wield considerable influence in a bush administration. voters were three times more likely to say that mr. bush would be influenced greatly by the n.r.a. than mr. gore would. in the follow-up interviews, some voters, citing character considerations, lamented that senator john mccain, who was defeated by mr. bush in the republican primaries, would not be on any ticket. in fact, mr. mccain has maintained far more impressive favorability ratings than mr. bush or mr. gore: 46 percent have a favorable view of him; 14 percent hold an unfavorable view. ''i don't see in gore or bush that clear definitive leadership quality that mccain had,'' said tim olkar, 22, a student in wheaton, ill., who is an independent. speaking of mr. gore, he said: ''he seems kind of wishy-washy as a candidate and seems to be running a negative campaign. bush seems a little more genuine to me.'' i intend to write my representative and senators in support of child-safety locks, the registration of all handguns and the licensing of all handgun owners. which candidate,  george w. bush or al gore, will be the first to support sensible gun laws? that candidate will earn my vote. albert hadley, the interior designer, stood at the bar with his bushy eyebrows and cunning sense of celebrity, smiling like a little fox. ''at five feet something, i never thought of myself as a giant,'' he said. the woman, digna fontanez, was trying to cross livingston street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with flatbush avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said detective john giammarino, a police spokesman. the woman, digna fontanez, was trying to cross livingston street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with flatbush avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said detective john giammarino, a police spokesman. the coalition's statement comes as the presumptive presidential nominees, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush, have sought to outmaneuver each other in wooing hispanic-americans and other immigrant groups. bush stakes out early lead  gov. george w. bush has emerged at this early stage as the preferred candidate across the demographic spectrum, a new york times/cbs news poll found, with americans preferring him personally to vice president al gore, though mr. gore's issue positions are more appealing. governor bush proposed letting workers choose how to invest some of their social security taxes. al gore, the cartoon -- vice president al gore's aides may have finally found a way to overcome complaints about his being too stiff: animation. in the may 21 season finale of the fox sci-fi comedy, ''futurama,'' the real mr. gore provides the voice for a cartoon al gore in an episode titled, ''back to the present.'' in the show, the cartoon mr. gore leads a team of ''action rangers'' who help the bumbling futurama regular, fry, return to the 31st century after he gets stranded in the 21st. al gore, the father and son -- after wrapping up a campaign speech yesterday afternoon near philadelphia, vice president al gore flew on a half-empty air force ii to nashville, to pick up his mother, pauline. the two were scheduled to fly to new york city today to see mr. gore's daughter, karenna, graduate from columbia law school. mr. gore's aides said the flight to nashville was paid for by taxpayers instead of by his campaign because it involved family business. *except for jimmy carter, every president for the last quarter-century has been left-handed. there is no question about gerald r. ford, george bush or bill clinton. ronald reagan writes and eats with his right hand. but edmund morris, the reagan biographer, has little doubt that mr. reagan is a natural lefty who is one of those who were trained to use their right hands. in the movies, mr. morris says, mr. reagan always twirled and shot pistols with his left hand, and as president, he always waved with his left hand. the presidential string is about to be broken. vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush are both right-handed. george w. bush al gore [a1] george w. bush al gore [a1] Corn plunges after new forecasts predict showers in part of US Midwest where long drought has threatened crop production; in Chicago, corn for July delivery falls 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel; graph; chart (S) CORN PRICES FALL. Corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the Midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. In Chicago, corn for July delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. CORN PRICES FALL. Corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the Midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. In Chicago, corn for July delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. ALBERT HADLEY, the interior designer, stood at the bar with his bushy eyebrows and cunning sense of celebrity, smiling like a little fox. ''At five feet something, I never thought of myself as a giant,'' he said. The woman, Digna Fontanez, was trying to cross Livingston Street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with Flatbush Avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. Witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said Detective John Giammarino, a police spokesman. The woman, Digna Fontanez, was trying to cross Livingston Street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with Flatbush Avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. Witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said Detective John Giammarino, a police spokesman. Corn plunges after new forecasts predict showers in part of US Midwest where long drought has threatened crop production; in Chicago, corn for July delivery falls 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel; graph; chart (S) CORN PRICES FALL. Corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the Midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. In Chicago, corn for July delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. CORN PRICES FALL. Corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the Midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. In Chicago, corn for July delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. ALBERT HADLEY, the interior designer, stood at the bar with his bushy eyebrows and cunning sense of celebrity, smiling like a little fox. ''At five feet something, I never thought of myself as a giant,'' he said. The woman, Digna Fontanez, was trying to cross Livingston Street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with Flatbush Avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. Witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said Detective John Giammarino, a police spokesman. The woman, Digna Fontanez, was trying to cross Livingston Street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with Flatbush Avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. Witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said Detective John Giammarino, a police spokesman. Corn plunges after new forecasts predict showers in part of US Midwest where long drought has threatened crop production; in Chicago, corn for July delivery falls 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel; graph; chart (S) CORN PRICES FALL. Corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the Midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. In Chicago, corn for July delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. CORN PRICES FALL. Corn plunged after new forecasts predicted showers in parts of the Midwest where a long drought has threatened crop production. In Chicago, corn for July delivery fell 7 cents, to $2.3875 a bushel. ALBERT HADLEY, the interior designer, stood at the bar with his bushy eyebrows and cunning sense of celebrity, smiling like a little fox. ''At five feet something, I never thought of myself as a giant,'' he said. The woman, Digna Fontanez, was trying to cross Livingston Street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with Flatbush Avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. Witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said Detective John Giammarino, a police spokesman. The woman, Digna Fontanez, was trying to cross Livingston Street, a busy four-lane street, just west of its intersection with Flatbush Avenue at 3:10 p.m., and she made it only halfway across, witnesses told the police. Witnesses said she backed up a few steps to avoid eastbound traffic and stumbled and fell into a westbound lane, said Detective John Giammarino, a police spokesman.