 robert f. bauer, the democratic lawyer who drew up the complaint, said he believed it was the first time the racketeering statute has been applied in a political fund-raising case, although the conservative legal watchdog group judicial watch cited the law in one of its complaints against the clinton-gore re-election committee of 1996. the presidential race is also expected to have a significant impact on the campaign. republicans are counting on a strong showing by gov. george w. bush of texas, their presumptive presidential nominee, to help mr. vinroot. mr. bush is heavily favored to win north carolina, but the size of a bush victory could be crucial. ''if george bush is a really strong candidate, if he's winning at the level of reagan in '84 or nixon in '72, easley can hang it up,'' said ted arrington, a political scientist at the university of north carolina at charlotte. ''if george is more like his father or bob dole, there's a good chance that mike easley will be our next governor.'' i agree that being a ''10'' is not a requirement for leading the country, but women everywhere should recognize that men, too, are constantly evaluated on the basis of their appearance. we need only to recall michael s. dukakis riding in a tank or the new earth-tone al gore to realize that dress, manner and looks are important parameters of public perception. i agree that being a ''10'' is not a requirement for leading the country, but women everywhere should recognize that men, too, are constantly evaluated on the basis of their appearance. we need only to recall michael s. dukakis riding in a tank or the new earth-tone al gore to realize that dress, manner and looks are important parameters of public perception. faced with lawsuits by 31 cities and counties, the nation's gun companies have broken off settlement negotiations, deciding to rely on their chances that state judges will prove sympathetic or that victory in november will go to george w. bush. faced with lawsuits by 31 cities and counties, the nation's gun companies have broken off settlement negotiations, deciding to rely on their chances that state judges will prove sympathetic or that victory in november will go to george w. bush. instead, people on both sides of the litigation say, the gun companies,  believing that the november elections will be crucial to their future,  are holding off any further settlement talks at least until they see whether mr. bush wins the presidency and the republicans maintain control of congress. at a minimum, the companies hope that mr. bush, who as governor of texas has been a staunch defender of the industry and of gun owners, will help dampen the growing public sentiment for additional gun control. beyond that, their hope is that a president bush would help push through congress a bill outlawing municipal suits against them. as governor, mr. bush got just such a law through the state legislature with the help of the national rifle association. even if those hopes are unrealized, the companies calculate, mr. bush would at least stop the kind of pressure the clinton administration has put on them through andrew m. cuomo, the secretary of housing and urban development, to settle the suits. robert delfay, president of the national shooting sports foundation, the industry's trade organization, said he believed that as president mr. bush would work to pass a law protecting gun makers from municipal suits, ''based on his actions as governor of texas,'' where he signed not only similar legislation but also a tort-reform measure curbing lawsuits against corporations. ''the industry is looking toward the election as a watershed event on this issue,'' mr. delfay said. ''if bush wins, we could be going in a whole new direction.'' paul januzzo, vice president and general counsel of one gun maker,  glock inc., acknowledged that settlement negotiations had come to a halt and that the industry was hoping for sympathy from a bush administration. mr. januzzo said that the negotiations had ''degenerated into terrorism'' with escalating demands by the plaintiffs and that he no longer trusted their lawyers or mr. cuomo. he said the industry viewed mr. bush as ''anti-lawyer.'' mr. bush's camp has been noncommittal about whether he would back the kind of legislation the gun makers are seeking. scott mcclellan, a bush spokesman, declined to rule out the possibility, saying simply,  ''he has not addressed that at the federal level.'' one big risk in the gun makers' november strategy, of course, is that  mr. bush could lose. in that case, the industry's best hope would lie in favorable treatment by judges. and so far, the industry is batting .500 with them: indeed, a videotape obtained by handgun control inc. and first reported in today's issue of the washington post shows a leading official of the rifle association telling members at a closed-door meeting in february that if mr. bush is elected, ''we'll have a president'' where ''we will work out of their office.'' the official, kayne robinson, the association's first vice president and iowa republican chairman as well, also says on the tape that this is ''a critical election,'' in which a bush victory will produce ''a supreme court that will back us to the hilt.'' aides to the bush campaign did not immediately return phone calls last night about the video, although the post quoted one campaign spokesman, mr. mcclellan, as saying that ''neither the n.r.a. nor any special interest sets the governor's agenda.'' short of enacting federal legislation, a bush administration and a republican-controlled congress  could achieve the same ends through other means. one way would be to tie federal block grants for law enforcement to a condition that any city accepting the money not sue the gun companies. federal law enforcement aid to cities and states has typically been through block grants, often with conditions attached. the clinton administration, for example, has prided itself on providing money for the hiring of 100,000 police officers, who, under the program, were required to be assigned to community policing. prolific fund-raisers and generous donors will also be invited to attend a private reception with mr. clinton and vice president al gore before the gala. mr. mcauliffe says he is trying to open the gala to thousands of young democrats, who he says will pay $50 or $100 for tickets. the democrats want to sell 14,000 arena tickets at prices from $50 to $1,000. and they have contrasted their event, which they say will encourage guests to wear blue jeans and cowboy boots, with the republicans' black-tie affair last month in tribute to gov. george w. bush of texas, the party's presumptive presidential nominee. hamada-dorothy, (nee fleischmann). died may 1, 2000 at the age of 92. beloved wife of the late joseph. devoted mother of edwin hamada & roslyn (barry) gore, grandmother of adam (kathy) hamada, jill hamada, audrey (sean) jacobs, wendy (bradley) gordon, matthew hamada & nikelle hamada. dear sister of the late rose wenig bernard fleischmann. adored aunt, cousin and friend to many. formerly of brooklyn, ny, and lauderdale lakes, fl. ''dotty'' worked alongside her husband, joe, at allied button corp. & abc button co in n.y.c., which they owned until their retirement in 1973. she inspired all who know her & will live in the hearts of her family and friends forever. services were held may 3. jewish memorial chapel, clifton, nj for information. hamada-dorothy, (nee fleischmann). died may 1, 2000 at the age of 92. beloved wife of the late joseph. devoted mother of edwin hamada & roslyn (barry) gore, grandmother of adam (kathy) hamada, jill hamada, audrey (sean) jacobs, wendy (bradley) gordon, matthew hamada & nikelle hamada. dear sister of the late rose wenig bernard fleischmann. adored aunt, cousin and friend to many. formerly of brooklyn, ny, and lauderdale lakes, fl. ''dotty'' worked alongside her husband, joe, at allied button corp. & abc button co in n.y.c., which they owned until their retirement in 1973. she inspired all who know her & will live in the hearts of her family and friends forever. services were held may 3. jewish memorial chapel, clifton, nj for information. i'm worried, though, about what this will do to al gore and george w. bush. now that the bar has been raised so high, america will be looking for a major laugh riot talent in the next president of the united states. al gore, on the other hand, while said to be a really amusing guy in person, is not wowing them so far -- though he has made himself more camera-ready with all that work on his pecs. so, a television commercial depicts a young man clipping hedges while drinking lipton's. the owner of the house whose hedges he has been clipping asks him what he is doing.  when the homeowner discovers his bush has been trimmed into the shape of a giant rabbit, he asks the young man to leave. as he departs, viewers see that the young man has cut all the bushes on the block into giant animal shapes. he is also hoping to draw attention to vice president al gore's education proposals while at least indirectly criticizing those of gov. george w. bush of texas, the likely republican presidential nominee. mr. gore's battle against mr. bush is expected to be fierce in all four states that mr. clinton is visiting on this trip -- mr. bush recently ran an advertisement attacking the clinton administration's education policies in kentucky and iowa. gore finds its justification only in what it adds to game play, and when the novelty of blood-spouting necks wore off, i found myself wishing this advanced damage model had served as inspiration for other elements of the game. the creators seem so taken with the depictions of violence that they have neglected the fear and dread that the carnage should inspire in its victims and perpetrators. but would it work? previous efforts to change the system have not always succeeded as the sponsors had hoped. some failed immediately. in 1988, for instance, southern democrats' effort to exert conservative influence by grouping their primaries on what became known as super tuesday failed, giving more aid to two liberal candidates, michael s. dukakis and jesse jackson, than their favorite son, al gore. another major problem would be money. one dirty little secret of the present system is that while it schedules primaries from january until june, the federal matching grant system does not provide money for a primary contest that lasts beyond april, when recent races have been over. even the wealthy bush campaign, which rejected public funding to avoid donation limits, would be flat broke if it were still buying television time today. bob shrum, a veteran democratic consultant now working for vice president gore, said that ''for people who are relying on public funding, it would be a huge problem.'' gov. george w. bush's plan to allow people to put their social security in the stock market (front page, may 1) is ill advised. i don't consider social security to be my main retirement income, but a fallback, in case the stock market doesn't do well. mr. bush seems to want to change my portfolio mix arbitrarily without my consent. he would be better advised to see to it that the current system stays in place. i want some of my retirement to be ''risk free.'' gov. george w. bush's plan to allow people to put their social security in the stock market (front page, may 1) is ill advised. i don't consider social security to be my main retirement income, but a fallback, in case the stock market doesn't do well. mr. bush seems to want to change my portfolio mix arbitrarily without my consent. he would be better advised to see to it that the current system stays in place. i want some of my retirement to be ''risk free.'' corn prices rise. corn for july delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the chicago board of trade, the highest closing price since june 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the midwest. corn prices rise. corn for july delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the chicago board of trade, the highest closing price since june 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the midwest. the cardinal's failing health in recent months diminished his public appearances and his position as a spokesman for the roman catholic church, but it did not diminish his stature as one of its most powerful symbols on moral and political issues. when gov. george w. bush of texas, seeking the republican nomination for president, expressed regret on feb. 27 for not speaking out against racial and anti-catholic intolerance during a campaign visit to bob jones university in south carolina, he did so in the form of a letter to cardinal o'connor. bush seeks help -- gov. george w. bush of texas reached out yesterday for an experienced republican hand, andrew h. card jr., to watch over bush interests at this summer's national convention in philadelphia. mr. card, vice president for governmental relations for the general motors corporation, worked in the white house under president george bush as deputy chief of staff and later was transportation secretary. he is the second member of the elder bush's cabinet to join the governor's political organization in recent weeks. the first was richard b. cheney, president bush's defense secretary, who was chosen to run the governor's vice presidential search committee. bush seeks help -- gov. george w. bush of texas reached out yesterday for an experienced republican hand, andrew h. card jr., to watch over bush interests at this summer's national convention in philadelphia. mr. card, vice president for governmental relations for the general motors corporation, worked in the white house under president george bush as deputy chief of staff and later was transportation secretary. he is the second member of the elder bush's cabinet to join the governor's political organization in recent weeks. the first was richard b. cheney, president bush's defense secretary, who was chosen to run the governor's vice presidential search committee. abortion rights alert -- the national abortion and reproductive rights action league is promoting vice president al gore with a television advertisement warning that if gov. george w. bush, the presumptive republican nominee, is elected president, he will appoint supreme court justices who will overturn roe v. wade, the landmark abortion rights decision. the commercials also warn that mr. bush ''even supports a constitutional amendment to outlaw abortion.'' mr. bush is on record as saying that he will appoint justices who will ''strictly interpret'' the constitution. kate michelman, president of the league, says many pro-rights supporters have been lulled into thinking that the right to a legal abortion is secure when, in fact, it is in danger because two or more supporters may leave the court in the next administration. the families --report on fatal crash -- details in a 1963 accident report say that laura bush, then 17, ran a stop sign in the texas crash that killed a friend in another car. the report, adding information to previous reports of the crash, was released yesterday. mrs. bush is the wife of the republican presidential nominee-to-be george w. bush, the texas governor. the report said laura welch was driving her chevrolet sedan on a clear night shortly after 8 p.m. on nov. 6, 1963, when she drove into an intersection and struck a car driven by her friend, 17-year-old michael douglas. no charges were filed. gore and bush trade barbs over policy and style  vice president al gore accused gov. george w. bush of devising a ''secret plan'' that could bankrupt the social security system. hours later, mr. bush questioned the vice president's honesty and predicted that mr. gore's attacks would backfire. gun companies change tack  gun companies have broken off settlement talks in suits by 31 cities and counties in hope that judges will prove sympathetic or that victory in november will go to the apparent republican presidential nominee, george w. bush, who as governor of texas has been a staunch defender of the industry and gun owners. george w. bush -- san juan capistrano, mission viejo and san diego, calif.  al gore -- chicago, lansing, mich. george w. bush -- san juan capistrano, mission viejo and san diego, calif.  al gore -- chicago, lansing, mich. in the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. such a flood of memories. you made my day. in the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. such a flood of memories. you made my day. in a sharp exchange that gave the presidential campaign the intensity of a day in late october, vice president al gore accused gov. george w. bush today of devising a ''secret plan'' that could bankrupt the social security system. hours later, mr. bush tartly questioned the vice president's honesty and predicted that mr. gore's attacking style would soon backfire. echoing a theme he has repeated often in recent days, mr. gore used a speech to union officials in new jersey to assert that mr. bush, the likely republican nominee, was quietly developing a ''risky'' plan to allow individual investment accounts in social security that would jeopardize millions of taxpayers' savings. in a sharp exchange that gave the presidential campaign the intensity of a day in late october, vice president al gore accused gov. george w. bush today of devising a ''secret plan'' that could bankrupt the social security system. hours later, mr. bush tartly questioned the vice president's honesty and predicted that mr. gore's attacking style would soon backfire. echoing a theme he has repeated often in recent days, mr. gore used a speech to union officials in new jersey to assert that mr. bush, the likely republican nominee, was quietly developing a ''risky'' plan to allow individual investment accounts in social security that would jeopardize millions of taxpayers' savings. ''how does the bush plan propose to deal with the bankruptcy of social security that his privatization scheme would cause?'' mr. gore told a gathering of a.f.l.-c.i.o. officials in atlantic city. ''he doesn't even bother to provide an answer. he just smiles and goes on with the smug assumption that there's no need to share with you the details of what he wants to do.'' responding to mr. gore's cascade of attacks, mr. bush spent much of a plane flight this afternoon from austin, tex., to palm springs, calif., telling reporters that the vice president had flatly misrepresented his record on a host of issues, ranging from the texas budget to his positions on china and russia to his crime-fighting policies. ''someone running for the highest office of the land should stick to the facts,'' mr. bush said. ''i think it is a pattern to say things, to stretch the truth. he's the man who said he invented the internet.'' asked whether mr. gore's aggressive campaigning might work as well against him as it did against former senator bill bradley during the democratic primaries, mr. bush said he planned to respond faster and more forcefully than mr. bradley. in fact, rather than being aggrieved by his opponent's attacks, mr. bush seemed somewhat amused by the constant salvos from the vice president, suggesting that mr. gore's strategy was self-defeating.  ''pretty soon, it's going to have a corrosive effect on his campaign if he's not telling the truth,'' mr. bush said of mr. gore during the 78-minute airborne news conference. ''the fact that he relies on facts -- says things that are not factual -- are going to undermine his campaign.'' mr. gore's aides clearly disagree. privately, they contend that the slashing strategy they employed during the primaries will work again in the general election, provided they avoid the appearance of attacking mr. bush personally. ''the primaries showed that voters believe that vigorously debating your opponent on issues is considered fair play,'' said one adviser to mr. gore. mr. gore also used his atlantic city speech to discuss his own proposal for keeping the social security system solvent. ''i will devote all interest from debt reduction to shore up social security,'' mr. gore said. ''i think it is wrong to cut benefits, raise the retirement age or risk your retirement savings in a game of stock market roulette.'' but that description amounted to one brief passage in a 35-minute speech that was devoted mainly to attacking mr. bush on a variety of fronts, particularly social security. under the proposal floated by mr. bush's aides in recent days, taxpayers would be allowed to invest a small part of their social security payroll taxes in the stock or bond markets. mr. bush's aides argue that such a plan would help taxpayers take advantage of the stock market's historic growth. but mr. gore asserted today that the plan would make the system vulnerable to huge market fluctuations that could hurt millions of retirees. and as he has repeatedly done in recent days, he suggested that mr. bush was charting a course that was ''reckless'' and ''irresponsible.'' ''to me, social security is more than a government program,'' he said. ''it is a solemn compact between the generations.'' governor bush, he added, ''seems to believe differently.'' mr. gore asserted that mr. bush had ''left the door wide open'' to raising the retirement age for social security as a means of bolstering the system. that approach, he argued, would be harmful to people who do strenuous manual labor and physically cannot postpone retirement. and he accused mr. bush of wanting to cut social security spending to pay for a tax cut that mr. gore argues would favor the rich. mr. bush's aides acknowledge that he has not ruled out raising the retirement age. but they note that he has not formulated a detailed plan yet, only the general principles for one. those include not increasing social security taxes, not cutting benefits and setting aside the social security surplus in a ''lockbox'' to make sure it is used only on social security. it was mr. bush's lack of a detailed plan that caused mr. gore to accuse the texas governor of devising a ''secret plan'' today. ''he wants to spring it on you after the election,'' mr. gore said. ''well, i think he may be underestimating the capacity of the american people to figure out for ourselves what the details of his secret plan would mean for each and every american.'' but if mr. gore's barbs were meant to rattle mr. bush, they failed. indeed, what was extraordinary about today's exchange was the almost delighted mood that mr. bush brought to his end of it. mr. bush was on his way to california for several days of campaigning, including a fund-raiser in palm springs tonight for the republican party that was expected to bring in about $1 million. on the flight, mr. bush revealed a few more glimmers than usual of his obvious distaste for what he seems to see as mr. gore's desperation to be president. usually, mr. bush does a more thorough job of pulling his punches when he is asked what he thinks about mr. gore as a person. after a reporter told mr. bush that mr. gore, whose first grandchild was born on the fourth of july, sometimes says to hispanic audiences that he hopes his second grandchild will be born on cinco de mayo, mr. bush muttered, ''totally pathetic.'' at another point, talking about his own desire for the presidency, mr. bush said: ''i'm willing to work for it. what i'm not willing to do is sell my soul to become the president.'' asked if mr. gore would do that, mr. bush arched an eyebrow and said, ''that's for you all to figure out.'' mr. bush did not use the word ''lied,'' and when reporters did, he corrected them, coyly repeating again and again that he was simply setting the record straight and expressing his ''disappointment'' in mr. gore's behavior. ''the vice president said i've never submitted a budget as governor of texas'' said mr. bush, reciting the comments by mr. gore that he deemed untruthful. ''he talked about recidivism rates that were totally inaccurate numbers.'' ''he said i called china and russia enemies,'' mr. bush added. ''have i ever referred to china and russia as enemies?'' mr. bush shook his head and veered toward what he clearly intended to be a kind of emotional and moral high ground. vice president al gore will we roll the dice in the same casino economics that devastated our economy and hurt working families? does anyone in this room think we should go back to the union-busting, job-destroying, budget-busting policies of the bush-quayle years. i don't think so. . . . there are deep and profound differences between governor bush and me. not personal differences, but real differences on the issues. i believe america has to put its fundamental responsibilities first. we have to pay down our debt, we have to save social security, we have to lift up working families. george w. bush believes instead that our top priority should be a reckless $2 trillion tax giveaway lavishing more on those who already have the most. . . . his tax plan is bigger than anything newt gingrich ever dreamed of proposing. that may be why governor bush does not set aside a single penny for medicare. and i believe his approach to social security is even more irresponsible.'' george w. bush ''in merger law, the clinton administration has a great deal in common with the reagan and bush years,'' said john shepard wiley jr., a law professor at the university of california at los angeles. ''the analysis has become bipartisan.'' in both the republican and democratic parties, the presidential primaries this year were intense, competitive and, as a practical matter, over very quickly. especially on the republican side, there was a feeling that a more leisurely schedule would have given voters a better chance to think about the dramatic contrasts in style and message presented by gov. george w. bush and senator john mccain. now, a republican party commission led by bill brock, a former senator and party chairman, has put forward a plan to slow down the primary season so that it is more likely to last a full four months. this is a sound plan that ought to be adopted by the republican national convention this summer and copied by the democrats, as well. in both the republican and democratic parties, the presidential primaries this year were intense, competitive and, as a practical matter, over very quickly. especially on the republican side, there was a feeling that a more leisurely schedule would have given voters a better chance to think about the dramatic contrasts in style and message presented by gov. george w. bush and senator john mccain. now, a republican party commission led by bill brock, a former senator and party chairman, has put forward a plan to slow down the primary season so that it is more likely to last a full four months. this is a sound plan that ought to be adopted by the republican national convention this summer and copied by the democrats, as well. the presumptive nominees, governor bush and vice president al gore, should push their parties to adopt this plan for a fairer, slower, more democratic primary season. So, a television commercial depicts a young man clipping hedges while drinking Lipton's. The owner of the house whose hedges he has been clipping asks him what he is doing.  When the homeowner discovers his bush has been trimmed into the shape of a giant rabbit, he asks the young man to leave. As he departs, viewers see that the young man has cut all the bushes on the block into giant animal shapes. CORN PRICES RISE. Corn for July delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest closing price since June 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the Midwest. CORN PRICES RISE. Corn for July delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest closing price since June 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the Midwest. In the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. Such a flood of memories. You made my day. In the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. Such a flood of memories. You made my day. So, a television commercial depicts a young man clipping hedges while drinking Lipton's. The owner of the house whose hedges he has been clipping asks him what he is doing.  When the homeowner discovers his bush has been trimmed into the shape of a giant rabbit, he asks the young man to leave. As he departs, viewers see that the young man has cut all the bushes on the block into giant animal shapes. CORN PRICES RISE. Corn for July delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest closing price since June 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the Midwest. CORN PRICES RISE. Corn for July delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest closing price since June 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the Midwest. In the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. Such a flood of memories. You made my day. In the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. Such a flood of memories. You made my day. So, a television commercial depicts a young man clipping hedges while drinking Lipton's. The owner of the house whose hedges he has been clipping asks him what he is doing.  When the homeowner discovers his bush has been trimmed into the shape of a giant rabbit, he asks the young man to leave. As he departs, viewers see that the young man has cut all the bushes on the block into giant animal shapes. CORN PRICES RISE. Corn for July delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest closing price since June 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the Midwest. CORN PRICES RISE. Corn for July delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.5075 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest closing price since June 1998, on forecasts for warm, dry weather in the Midwest. In the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. Such a flood of memories. You made my day. In the winter, we (the class of 1946) would ride sleighs down the hill in front of the main building pictured (where a student was using her laptop under a tree), and in the spring we would walk along a path bordered with lilac bushes. Such a flood of memories. You made my day.