 proof  by david auburn; directed by daniel sullivan; sets by john lee beatty; costumes by jess goldstein; lighting by pat collins; sound by john gromada; production stage manager, james harker; production manager, michael r. moody; associate artistic director, michael bush; general manager, harold wolpert. presented by manhattan theater club, lynne meadow, artistic director; barry grove, executive director. at city center, stage 1, 131 west 55th street, manhattan. bush backs arms cuts and antimissile system  gov. george w. bush, flanked by prominent figures from four republican administrations, called for a ''new approach to nuclear security,'' one that includes possible unilateral reductions in american nuclear weapons combined with a robust antimissile defense system. mr. bush said he wanted to reduce the size of america's nuclear arsenal to the ''lowest possible number consistent with our national security'' and below the levels called for under the start ii treaty with russia. mr. bush discussed his broad agenda with house republicans. gov george w bush, holding nation's security no longer requires 'nuclear balance of terror,' calls for new and possibly unilateral cut in american nuclear arms coupled with robust antimissile defense system, news conference; is flanked by foreign policy experts from four republican administrations; shies away from specifics, but calls for cutting nuclear arsenal below levels called for under start ii accord with russia; calls for study of whether space-based missile defense system can work; holds missile defenses should be designed to protect all 50 states, allies and deployed forces abroad from attacks by rogue nations or accidental launches; photo (m) declaring that the nation's security no longer required ''a nuclear balance of terror,'' gov. george w. bush called today for new -- and possibly unilateral -- reductions in american nuclear weapons coupled with a robust antimissile defense system. though he shied from specifics, mr. bush said he wanted to reduce the size of the united states' nuclear arsenal to the ''lowest possible number consistent with our national security'' and below the levels called for under the start ii accord with russia. declaring that the nation's security no longer required ''a nuclear balance of terror,'' gov. george w. bush called today for new -- and possibly unilateral -- reductions in american nuclear weapons coupled with a robust antimissile defense system. though he shied from specifics, mr. bush said he wanted to reduce the size of the united states' nuclear arsenal to the ''lowest possible number consistent with our national security'' and below the levels called for under the start ii accord with russia. asked at a news conference whether that meant he would reduce the nation's nuclear arsenal unilaterally, mr. bush said, ''yes.'' but then he quickly added, ''i would work closely with the russians to convince them to do the same.'' and he said, ''i would never do anything to put our  nation at risk.'' [excerpts, page a21.] mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, accompanied his call for nuclear weapons reductions with a full-throated endorsement of a far more expansive  missile defense system than that being explored by the clinton administration. he said he wanted to examine all options for a global system including ''whether or not a space-based system can work.'' ''america must build effective missile defenses,'' mr. bush said, ''based on the best available options at the earliest possible date. our missile defense must be designed to protect all 50 states and our friends and allies and deployed forces overseas from missile attacks by rogue nations or accidental launches.'' mr. bush's lack of experience in foreign policy is one of his biggest political vulnerabilities, and he has been making a concerted drive in recent days to speak out on national security issues. mr. bush's appearance today was unlike any event that preceded it in this campaign. in contrast to previous policy speeches, his audience consisted only of several dozen washington reporters gathered in the national press club. his speech was relatively short, and much of his time was devoted to answering questions. to give himself added authority, mr. bush spoke while flanked by five prominent experts in national security: henry a. kissinger, george p. shultz, brent scowcroft, colin l. powell and donald h. rumsfeld, several of whom voiced support of mr. bush's ideas. the result was some strange political symbolism as mr. bush called for new thinking for a new post-cold-war era, surrounded by some of the architects of the nation's cold-war arms control treaties. although president clinton has signaled his willingness to negotiate further weapons cuts with russia, mr. bush accused the administration of being ''locked in a cold-war mentality'' on arms control. that was virtually the same charge vice president al gore used against mr. bush just a few weeks ago. at that time mr. gore, the presumptive democratic presidential nominee, said mr. bush was ''stuck in a cold-war mind-set'' and cited his advocacy of a global missile defense system. today, mr. gore's aides sharply criticized mr. bush, saying his approach to nuclear security was unrealistic, that it would not be accepted by the russians and that it would would undermine years of arms control agreements. mr. gore's advisers pointed to mr. bush's opposition to the comprehensive test ban treaty and said the governor advocates the radical rewriting, if not outright abolition, of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. ''bush's agenda is irresponsible and shows that he lacks the depth of experience to keep america safe and secure,'' said douglas hattaway, a spokesman for mr. gore. mr. bush has said he would pull out of the pact if the russians did not agree to adjust it after ''a reasonable amount of time.'' mr. gore, like mr. clinton, favors negotiating with the russians to change the antiballistic missile treaty and make way for the more limited missile defense system. with his speech, mr. bush aligned himself with a group of foreign policy thinkers who have started to ask whether traditional arms control agreements are suited to the post-cold-war era. yet mr. bush sidestepped a host of questions today by saying that as president he would order his defense secretary to conduct an assessment of the nuclear force structure and only then decide how many nuclear weapons the nation needed. pressed on whether he supported the start iii framework, mr. bush said he would decide what level of warheads was sufficient only after consultations with his defense secretary and the military. if mr. bush contemplates reducing the nuclear arsenal to less than 2,000 to 2,500 weapons, he could well face resistance from the military. on capitol hill today, the joint chiefs of staff said they opposed reducing the united states nuclear arsenal below those levels, though their words were not aimed at mr. bush. they appeared at a hearing called by senator john w. warner, republican of virginia, as a pre-emptive strike against any efforts by the administration to use lower nuclear arms cuts with russia to win agreement on limited missile defense system. mr. bush portrayed his drive for an expansive missile defense system as one that would protect not just the united states but its allies against accidental missile launchings, terrorist strikes or rogue nations. he said that he would share the technology with europe and israel and that he might consider sharing it with russia, depending on ''how russia behaves.'' mr. bush insisted that he could afford a robust antimissile defense system along with two other things for which he has called: a $1.3 trillion tax cut and billions of new dollars in spending on social programs and additional tax incentives. the congressional budget office recently estimated that it would cost $60 billion to build a land-based system that would include 250 missile interceptors at two sites. mr. bush is interested in a missile defense system far more wide ranging than one mr. clinton is examining. ms. rice said in an interview that he wants to look at ''all options'' including defense from land, from sea or from space. leon fuerth, the national security adviser to mr. gore, argued today that the more limited system being examined by the clinton administration could be in place by 2005 in time to face a possible threat from north korea. he said mr. bush's effort to ''tear up all the technology and start all over again'' would set back development and leave the united states vulnerable to rogue states. mr. bush did not mention his father in his speech today, but he clearly had him in mind as a model when he spoke of the possibility of arms reductions carried out without  ''years and years of detailed arms control negotiations.'' he used 1991 as an example of the kinds of steps he was advocating. that was the year when president george bush unilaterally took all american strategic bombers off alert status. he also removed american short-range nuclear weapons from europe and asia. in talking with reporters, governor bush said he had consulted with mr. kissinger, mr. shultz and the others with him on the policy he was advocating. and he said all had agreed to advise him in the future. but most attention focused on mr. powell, who was chairman of the joint chiefs of staff during the persian gulf war of 1991 and who many republicans would like to see as a vice-presidential candidate. mr. powell has said he is not interested in the job. ''the answer's well known,'' he said today. ''i won't take any time away from the governor to belabor you with'' being nominated as vice president. asked whether he had discussed with mr. powell the possibility of a  cabinet post like secretary of state, mr. bush shot back to reporters, ''i'm not going to tell you what i talk to him about.'' sierra club television commercial attacking gov george w bush's environmental record in texas assessed; photo (m) since early december, the sierra club has been running television commercials that attack gov. george w. bush's environmental record in texas. in this new 30-second spot, which is going on the air this week in st. louis, milwaukee, detroit and lansing, mich., the organization is expanding its effort to portray the republican as indifferent to the environment. mr. parten: we've contacted george bush's office and he has the attitude that he's not interested. narrator: call george bush. tell him to oppose legislation in congress that weakens penalties for clean air and water violators. for our families, for our future. accuracy -- governors in large states seeking higher office have to expect to run on their records, and the environment is an issue on which democrats believe mr. bush is highly vulnerable; vice president al gore regularly decries mr. bush's stewardship of a state that ranks in several categories as one of the nation's most polluted. texas's vast and influential oil and chemical industries have yielded the state riches but also some pollution problems. houston is among the nation's most smoggy cities, and the release of toxins into waterways is a growing problem. but just as the sierra club quotes from federal reports that describe texas's environmental flaws, mr. bush can cite some advancements, such as an initiative to reduce emissions from older plants and the expansion of a program begun by his predecessor, ann w. richards, a democrat, to reward companies that cut their toxic waste by half. scorecard -- the environmental advocacy group is spending $250,000 to run this commercial in four midwestern and border states: missouri, wisconsin, michigan and, next week, ohio, all of which are considered potentially decisive in the fall campaign. the sierra club started its advertising blitz two months before the new hampshire primary and has emerged as one of the most active and visible special-interest groups of the campaign on television. it is planning to spend $8 million to raise public awareness of environmental issues. mr. bush's efforts to counter the club's assertions have been fairly low key, limited to events like a news conference in april in which he unveiled a plan to hasten the cleanup of abandoned industrial sites. since early december, the sierra club has been running television commercials that attack gov. george w. bush's environmental record in texas. in this new 30-second spot, which is going on the air this week in st. louis, milwaukee, detroit and lansing, mich., the organization is expanding its effort to portray the republican as indifferent to the environment. mr. parten: we've contacted george bush's office and he has the attitude that he's not interested. narrator: call george bush. tell him to oppose legislation in congress that weakens penalties for clean air and water violators. for our families, for our future. accuracy -- governors in large states seeking higher office have to expect to run on their records, and the environment is an issue on which democrats believe mr. bush is highly vulnerable; vice president al gore regularly decries mr. bush's stewardship of a state that ranks in several categories as one of the nation's most polluted. texas's vast and influential oil and chemical industries have yielded the state riches but also some pollution problems. houston is among the nation's most smoggy cities, and the release of toxins into waterways is a growing problem. but just as the sierra club quotes from federal reports that describe texas's environmental flaws, mr. bush can cite some advancements, such as an initiative to reduce emissions from older plants and the expansion of a program begun by his predecessor, ann w. richards, a democrat, to reward companies that cut their toxic waste by half. scorecard -- the environmental advocacy group is spending $250,000 to run this commercial in four midwestern and border states: missouri, wisconsin, michigan and, next week, ohio, all of which are considered potentially decisive in the fall campaign. the sierra club started its advertising blitz two months before the new hampshire primary and has emerged as one of the most active and visible special-interest groups of the campaign on television. it is planning to spend $8 million to raise public awareness of environmental issues. mr. bush's efforts to counter the club's assertions have been fairly low key, limited to events like a news conference in april in which he unveiled a plan to hasten the cleanup of abandoned industrial sites. gore leads in hollywood money -- entertainment industry donors, historically more democratic than republican, give vice president al gore more campaign money than they give gov. george w. bush of texas. through march 30 in the current election cycle, mr. gore collected $858,865 from executives and others employed by television, movie and music companies, while mr. bush brought in $661,877, according to the latest figures compiled by the center for responsive politics, a nonpartisan study group in washington. over all, mr. bush has a 2-to-1 lead in fund-raising, $84 million to $36 million, not including federal matching funds. the entertainment industry is mr. gore's fifth-largest campaign contributor; it is no. 20 on the bush list. vice pres al gore, responding to gov george w bush's criticism of clinton administration's israel policies, scores bush's father, former pres george bush, for threatening in 1991 to withhold american loan guarantees unless israel agreed to stop building new settlements in west bank and gaza strip, speech to american israel public affairs committee; recalls his opposition as senator in 1988 to reagan administration plan to get israel to take part against its wishes in peace conference involving soviet union and arab nations; photo (m) responding to gov. george w. bush's criticism of the clinton administration's policies on israel, vice president al gore today accused mr. bush's father of trying to pressure israel to adopt positions it strongly opposed during his presidency. in a speech before the american israel public affairs committee, a pro-israel lobbying group, mr. gore criticized the former president, george bush, for seeking to withhold american loan guarantees to israel in 1991 unless it agreed to stop building new settlements in the west bank and gaza strip. he called that policy an ''insulting concept'' intended ''to bully'' israel. responding to gov. george w. bush's criticism of the clinton administration's policies on israel, vice president al gore today accused mr. bush's father of trying to pressure israel to adopt positions it strongly opposed during his presidency. in a speech before the american israel public affairs committee, a pro-israel lobbying group, mr. gore criticized the former president, george bush, for seeking to withhold american loan guarantees to israel in 1991 unless it agreed to stop building new settlements in the west bank and gaza strip. he called that policy an ''insulting concept'' intended ''to bully'' israel. mr. gore also told the crowd of 2,000 people that in 1988, as a senator from tennessee, he had opposed a reagan administration plan to get israel to take part against its wishes in a peace conference involving the soviet union and arab nations. ''i stood against the efforts of the two previous administrations to pressure israel to take stands against its own view of what was in israel's best interest,'' mr. gore said to warm applause. ''when a friend's survival is potentially at stake, you don't pressure that friend to take steps that it believes are clearly contrary to what is in that friend's best interests.'' mr. gore made his remarks a day after governor bush, the likely republican nominee for president, used a speech before the same organization to accuse the clinton administration of trying ''to make israel conform to its own plans and timetables.'' the governor also asserted that the administration had taken sides in the most recent israeli election by supporting ehud barak in his victorious campaign over prime minister benjamin netanyahu. in his comments today, mr. gore did not mention governor bush. but he made repeated references to presidents reagan and bush, at one point asserting that both men took a hands-off approach to middle east policy. ''when we took office almost eight year ago, president clinton and i decided that the united states needed to chart a new course with regard to the middle east peace process,'' mr. gore said. ''unlike our immediate predecessors, we chose to get intimately involved.'' and he reminded the crowd of president bush's failure to oust  president saddam hussein of iraq in  the persian gulf war of 1991. ''you know as well as i know that as long as saddam hussein stays in power, there can be no comprehensive peace for the people of israel or the people of the middle east,'' mr. gore said. after the speech, mr. gore flew to the annual convention of the service employees international union in pittsburgh, where he continued his attack on mr. bush's proposal to allow taxpayers to invest a portion of their social security payroll taxes. mr. bush contends that private investment accounts would allow taxpayers to take advantage of booming markets and help stabilize the system, which is projected to become insolvent in 2037. but mr. gore argues that privatization, as he calls it, would bankrupt the system. today, mr. gore told the 1.4-million-member union, which has endorsed him, that mr. bush's plan presented a ''special risk'' for service workers because the government might be forced to increase the retirement age to finance it. mr. bush denies that. ''i don't care what the actuarial tables say about people living longer, when somebody who is working in hard physical-labor jobs get to the present retirement age, they shouldn't be told they have to keep working until they are 70 years old,'' mr. gore said. ''the bush privatization plan doesn't just open the door to raising the retirement age, it practically rolls out a red carpet for the idea.'' excerpts from gov george w bush's remarks on national security following are excerpts from a transcript of gov. george w. bush's remarks yesterday in washington on national security, and the question-and-answer session that followed and included a brief remark by gen. colin l. powell, as recorded by the new york times: following are excerpts from a transcript of gov. george w. bush's remarks yesterday in washington on national security, and the question-and-answer session that followed and included a brief remark by gen. colin l. powell, as recorded by the new york times: the clinton-gore administration has had over seven years to bring the u.s. force posture into the post-cold-war world. instead, they remained locked in a cold-war mentality. it is time to leave the cold war behind and defend against the new threats of the 21st century. mr. bush. yes, and i would hope ----. yes, i am, and i would work closely with the russians to convince them to do the same. q. governor bush, this is the second time that you've talked in kind of detail about a national missile defense system. in the new york times you talked about the cost and how you would pay for it in context with your tax cuts, saving social security [unintelligible]. a. oh, o.k., i see. according to mr. gore, he wants 60 debates. q. well, the commission says that you have to have 15 percent in the polls to get in on the debates. but the consensus seems to be that if it was you and vice president gore, you're going to put the country to sleep ---- mr. bush. and don't you ever accuse him of being smarmy again. gov george w bush speaks to house republicans at capital hill club, underscoring many of presidential campaign themes he believes unite party and avoiding past differences with house republicans; wins outpouring of admiration (m) gov. george w. bush set aside his customary reserve toward house republicans in a trip to capitol hill today and was rewarded with an outpouring of admiration. the event was more a pep rally than a formal address as mr. bush spoke for about 20 minutes to house republicans at the capitol hill club, underscoring many of his campaign themes. he touched on his plan for a partial privatization of social security and mentioned that he would work to overhaul medicare, repeal the inheritance tax and share part of the budget surplus with taxpayers. gov. george w. bush set aside his customary reserve toward house republicans in a trip to capitol hill today and was rewarded with an outpouring of admiration. the event was more a pep rally than a formal address as mr. bush spoke for about 20 minutes to house republicans at the capitol hill club, underscoring many of his campaign themes. he touched on his plan for a partial privatization of social security and mentioned that he would work to overhaul medicare, repeal the inheritance tax and share part of the budget surplus with taxpayers. mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, made a point of highlighting themes he believes unite the party and avoided mentioning his past differences with house republicans over issues like tax credits, lawmakers at the meeting said. and he offered to campaign for house members. if house republicans still felt slighted by mr. bush's wary reserve toward them, they did not show it. representative christopher shays of connecticut said he was impressed with mr. bush's sense of conviction, especially on social security. ''there's a real difference between him and al gore, and he relishes that,'' mr. shays added. members said they left the meeting feeling charged-up about the november elections and about mr. bush's prospects, a stark contrast to bob dole's meeting with house republicans four years ago. vice pres al gore's support for china trade bill opposed by labor groups that back him has been ambivalent, even as he hopes to show he is not beholden to labor and will break with important constituency over principle; he cites disagreement with labor's stance at convention, pittsburgh, of union once headed by afl-cio president john sweeney, who has essentially given him pass on bill; stephen p yokich, united auto workers head, scores gore's lobbying for bill (m) on the eve of the china trade vote, while the clinton administration was still nailing down support for the bill's passage, vice president al gore flew off to pittsburgh. the steel city, one of the nation's last redoubts of big labor, was host to a conference of the service employees union, the home base of the president of the a.f.l.-c.i.o., which has devoted itself to killing the legislation. heading for union turf at such a juncture is one more sign of mr. gore's ambivalence, if not toward the bill, then toward his public association with the bill. on the eve of the china trade vote, while the clinton administration was still nailing down support for the bill's passage, vice president al gore flew off to pittsburgh. the steel city, one of the nation's last redoubts of big labor, was host to a conference of the service employees union, the home base of the president of the a.f.l.-c.i.o., which has devoted itself to killing the legislation. heading for union turf at such a juncture is one more sign of mr. gore's ambivalence, if not toward the bill, then toward his public association with the bill. ''which side is the vice president on?'' representative charles b. rangel, the new york democrat, said in an interview. ''he doesn't want to offend anybody.'' mr. rangel said that mr. gore had called him about the bill but that he was already supporting it and that there was not much point to the conversation. the service workers' union and its former chief, john sweeney, who is now president of the a.f.l.-c.i.o., have essentially given mr. gore a pass on the china bill, but not everyone in the labor movement is feeling so generous. the president of the united auto workers today offered one of the most blistering assessments of mr. gore's actions on behalf of the bill. mr. gore has been two-faced, the union president said, and is driving the auto workers into the arms of one of the auto industry's enduring nemesis, ralph nader, who is also running for president. ''he has tried to have it both ways on china,'' an outraged stephen p. yokich, president of the 1.3-million-strong auto workers union, said of mr. gore in a statement today. ''one moment, presidential candidate gore is telling the labor movement that he believes human rights, workers' rights, and environmental protections should be included in core trade agreements; the next, vice president gore is holding hands with the profiteers of the world and singing the praises'' of the trade agreement and ''lobbying'' for it. mr. gore, speaking to reporters in pittsburgh, brushed aside the attack, saying the election was a long time away and that he would not entertain hypothetical questions. still, criticism from a putative ally goes a long way toward explaining mr. gore's reluctance to take a more visible role in promoting the trade agreement. the gore campaign has hoped that the vice president could use the issue to convey that he is not beholden to labor and that he is willing to break with an important constituency over principle. ''i just want to tell you forthrightly i don't share your views on this particular issue,'' mr. gore said to several thousand service workers today. mr. gore has said numerous times that he supports the trade agreement, and he took part in a white house pep rally to advance it. he also has said that he has called members of congress to lobby on behalf of the bill. but as he runs with labor's endorsement and seeks to energize union workers behind his candidacy, the degree of mr. gore's support has been questioned. he caused consternation at the white house in february after labor leaders said he had indicated that he would negotiate a tougher pact than mr. clinton negotiated. administration officials were worried that mr. gore's stance could give political cover to democrats who opposed the bill. mr. gore then wrote to the nation's chief business lobbying group, the national association of manufacturers, to reassure it of his support. unlike gov. george w. bush of texas, mr. gore's republican rival for the presidency, mr. gore has not devoted a speech to the single topic of the china bill. when mr. bush addressed it last week at a boeing factory in everett, washington, his impassioned remarks gave the appearance that he was more closely allied with president clinton on this matter than mr. gore. today, mr. bush met with republicans privately on capitol hill and reiterated his support for the bill. members said afterward that he asked those who plan to vote against it to reconsider their vote. it is not clear whether mr. gore's lower-key approach will advance either his beliefs in economic globalization or his political aspirations. stephen p. hess, a presidential scholar at the brookings institution, a liberal research organization, said that mr. gore's blurry approach raised legitimate questions. but he also suggested that mr. gore's posture over the bill has reinforced an impression that the vice president is overly cautious and calculating. ''you feel that gore really is an internationalist, but for heaven's sake, why doesn't he come out and say it?'' mr. hess said. ''everything has become so calculated.'' democrats say the unions have riven the party, in part by running commercials against some members who oppose the bill while they have essentially given mr. gore the kid-glove treatment. george w. bush -- detroit al gore -- washington george w. bush -- detroit al gore -- washington arms control experts hail some of gov george w bush arms control proposals; warn he challenges arms control tenet that prohibiting defenses allows limits in offenses with call for missile defenses for united states and its allies (m) it lacked details and raised, but failed to answer, tantalizing questions. but gov. george w. bush's call today for ''a new approach'' to the nation's nuclear arsenal represented what could be, in the view of experts, a significant shift in arms control and post-cold-war relations with russia. in his remarks at the national press club, mr. bush embraced concepts that arms controllers have long advocated, including deeper reductions in warheads and steps to ease the highest levels of alert at which those weapons can be launched on a moment's notice. it lacked details and raised, but failed to answer, tantalizing questions. but gov. george w. bush's call today for ''a new approach'' to the nation's nuclear arsenal represented what could be, in the view of experts, a significant shift in arms control and post-cold-war relations with russia. in his remarks at the national press club, mr. bush embraced concepts that arms controllers have long advocated, including deeper reductions in warheads and steps to ease the highest levels of alert at which those weapons can be launched on a moment's notice. but in calling for missile defenses not only for the united states but also for its allies, mr. bush challenged the longtime orthodoxy of arms control: that prohibiting defenses allowed limits in offenses. ''our mutual security need no longer depend on a nuclear balance of terror,'' mr. bush declared, surrounded by members of republican administrations who once defended some of the very assumptions that he challenged today. many of the proposals outlined by mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, were greeted with striking praise from arms-control experts. in particular, they welcomed his pledge to ask the pentagon to review its targeting strategies and rethink the number of warheads, which mr. bush called ''expensive relics of dead conflicts.'' but they warned about the risks in other parts of mr. bush's vision. mr. bush's seemingly open-ended view of missile defenses, they said, could undercut the benefits of his proposals to reduce the number of weapons and take ''as many weapons as possible'' off ''hair-trigger status.'' bruce g. blair, president of the center for defense information here and a strong advocate for reducing the alert status of american and russian forces, welcomed mr. bush's remarks. but he said they contained inherent contradictions. mr. blair said that if the united states proceeded with a significant missile defense system, russia would feel compelled to keep its forces on alert to preserve their ability to launch an overwhelming counterattack. a heightened russian posture, he added, would convince the pentagon that the steps mr. bush said he would pursue -- even unilaterally -- would not be possible. neither mr. bush nor his aides would discuss his proposals in detail, leaving many questions about how -- and whether -- he could bring about a new era of arms control in a bush presidency. he did not rule out creating a missile defense based at sea or in space, which would prove even more unsettling to the russians than the limited system the clinton administration is considering and would certainly require abrogation of the a.b.m. treaty. mr. bush emphasized that he would never make any reductions that the pentagon did not endorse, but it has long been the pentagon that has resisted deeper reductions in warheads. mr. mclagan said that mrs. clinton was distorting mr. lazio's position because the congressman has clearly stated his support for the party's candidate for president. ''the fact is that rick supports george bush for president, and opposes pat buchanan.''