 ms. willey is not a party to the suit by judicial watch, which contends that the white house improperly obtained hundreds of files from the federal bureau of investigation on former appointees and employees of the reagan and bush administrations. judicial watch has focused on the handling of the willey letters in the hope of uncovering evidence that might buttress its allegations involving misuse of the bureau's files. bush s speaking to a roman catholic group, gov. george w. bush today took the side of the vatican in a battle over its status at the united nations, a clash that stems in large part from its stands in international disputes over family planning and abortion. mr. bush, criticized during the republican primary campaign for appearing at bob jones university, whose leaders have expressed anti-catholic views, brought up the effort by a number of groups, many of them women's and health organizations that disagree with the church on abortion and family planning, to downgrade the vatican's permanent-observer status. speaking to a roman catholic group, gov. george w. bush today took the side of the vatican in a battle over its status at the united nations, a clash that stems in large part from its stands in international disputes over family planning and abortion. mr. bush, criticized during the republican primary campaign for appearing at bob jones university, whose leaders have expressed anti-catholic views, brought up the effort by a number of groups, many of them women's and health organizations that disagree with the church on abortion and family planning, to downgrade the vatican's permanent-observer status. ''in world affairs, the holy see has long been an influence for the good, and never more than in the last couple of decades,'' said mr. bush, speaking by satellite hookup to the catholic press association, which was meeting in baltimore. but aides to both vice president al gore and richard c. holbrooke, the united states' chief delegate to the united nations, said mr. gore and the clinton administration backed  the vatican's permanent-observer status as well. ''bush is once again making foolish charges,'' said douglas hattaway, a spokesman for mr. gore. in his talk to the catholic press association, mr. bush also spoke of compassion and values, his remarks sprinkled with quotations from both pope john paul ii and cardinal john o'connor, the late archbishop of new york. ''a truly welcoming society must be a culture of life,'' the governor said, calling for the ''day when every child, born and unborn, is welcome in life and protected in law.'' in response to a question, mr. bush defended texas' record on executions, saying capital punishment, more common here than in any other state, ''sends a chilling message'' that deters crime. he said once again  that he knew of no one innocent whom the state had executed. mr. bush's aides said his comments today about the clinton administration's position on the matter had been prompted by the united states mission's sponsoring a news conference in march by catholics for free choice, a group seeking a review of the vatican's status. a non-government organization, or n.g.o., has to be sponsored by a member nation in order to hold a news conference at the united nations. an aide to mr. bush who briefed reporters at the governor's campaign headquarters here said a bush administration would not have given catholics for free choice access to the united nations. but this aide  spoke on the condition that he not be identified. ari fleischer, spokesman for the campaign, was less definitive, saying that if a bush administration  sponsored such a group, mr. bush  ''would make clear he didn't share their point of view.'' mr. hattaway, speaking for mr. gore, said of mr. bush and his visit to bob jones university, ''if he's truly concerned about catholics, why did he address a place that calls catholicism a cult?'' the controversy over mr. bush's campaign stop at bob jones, in south carolina, was stoked by senator john mccain, who was mr. bush's main rival for the republican presidential nomination. mr. bush later wrote to cardinal o'connor to say he regretted not having used his appearance at bob jones to speak out against its leaders' views. good security still starts and ends with trust, integrity and seriousness of purpose. agencies need more resources. but simply observing the rules that already exist, from the top down, would go a long way.  robert m. gates served on the national security council staff under four presidents and was director of the central intelligence agency under president george bush. there are signs that a reconciliation between vice pres al gore and former sen bill bradley may lie ahead; they have not spoken since gore beat bradley in democratic presidential race; bradley aides say they expect him to appear with gore sometime before democratic national convention in august (s) in the 11 weeks since vice president al gore beat former senator bill bradley in the democratic presidential race, the two men have not spoken. but there are signs that a reconciliation may lie ahead. aides to mr. bradley say they expect him to appear with mr. gore sometime before the democratic national convention in august, and possibly as soon as next month. and in a news conference on thursday night, mr. gore acknowledged as much. in the 11 weeks since vice president al gore beat former senator bill bradley in the democratic presidential race, the two men have not spoken. but there are signs that a reconciliation may lie ahead. aides to mr. bradley say they expect him to appear with mr. gore sometime before the democratic national convention in august, and possibly as soon as next month. and in a news conference on thursday night, mr. gore acknowledged as much. asked whether he expected to appear publicly with mr. bradley, mr. gore imitated a fortuneteller, closing his eyes, pointing a finger to his temple and saying, ''i see that in the future.'' he declined to say when the appearance would take place. and though the two men have not spoken in weeks, mr. gore contended that their relationship was ''in good shape.'' some have doubts that those talks can overcome the bad feelings of the primaries. disappointed with his failure to win a single state and dismayed with mr. gore's brass-knuckle campaign, mr. bradley disappeared from public view after bowing out of the race on march 9. and mr. gore has made little personal effort to draw him out. but aides to the two men have been in negotiations that are expected to culminate in plans for mr. bradley to campaign for, and possibly with, mr. gore. conducting the negotiations are tony coelho, mr. gore's campaign chairman, and rick wright, mr. bradley's close friend and former campaign treasurer. the talks have focused largely on mr. bradley's role at the convention and the number of supporters he will be allowed to take along as delegates. in his news conference on thursday night, mr. gore said mr. bradley would definitely be given time to speak at the convention. asked about negotiations over delegates, the vice president replied, ''i don't think there will be a problem of any kind.'' aides to mr. bradley say talks between the two camps have been reasonably smooth. but some friends of his contend that the gore campaign should have acted sooner to unify the party and recruit his help. they say one reason mr. bradley has kept a low profile is that mr. gore has not called him personally to request his support. ''they've obviously made a calculation that they don't need bradley's help,'' said one democratic member of congress who supported the bradley campaign. ''this information wasn't even in the scope of our subpoena for information,'' mr. specter said in an interview. ''it was gratuitously volunteered, and they did it to beat up freeh a little bit and to help them defend their decision not to go after gore.'' mr. specter said the gore and freeh situations were ''as different as night and day.'' mr. freeh, he said, was clearly shown to have made an innocent mistake and had corrected it quickly. the questions about mr. gore involve whether the vice president was telling the truth when he asserted he was unaware that his fund-raising efforts were aimed at raising money that is both limited and regulated by federal law. at the time of the preliminary inquiry into whether he had intentionally misled congress, mr. freeh was an outspoken advocate within government circles for the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate the democrats, especially vice president gore. vice pres al gore, after spending several weeks watching his opponent grab headlines and project a more moderate image, is embarking on new campaign strategy that will blend personal, biographical details with policy matters in his ongoing effort to reach voters on human level; photo (m) after spending several weeks watching his opponent grab headlines and project a more moderate image, vice president al gore is embarking on a new campaign strategy that will blend personal, biographical details with policy matters in his ongoing effort to reach voters on a human level. on saturday, mr. gore is to give the commencement address to the 944 cadets graduating from the united states military academy at west point. aides said he would discuss both his plans for military preparedness and his experience as an army enlistee in vietnam. after spending several weeks watching his opponent grab headlines and project a more moderate image, vice president al gore is embarking on a new campaign strategy that will blend personal, biographical details with policy matters in his ongoing effort to reach voters on a human level. on saturday, mr. gore is to give the commencement address to the 944 cadets graduating from the united states military academy at west point. aides said he would discuss both his plans for military preparedness and his experience as an army enlistee in vietnam. on thursday he is to give a major speech on cancer research at a time when scientists are completing work on the human genome project, a long-running interest of mr. gore's.  and on friday he will speak about the responsibility of fathers. mr. gore has been introducing and reintroducing himself for some months, but some of his advisers worry that there is still a gap in voters' knowledge about him and that this is hurting him in comparisons with gov. george w. bush of texas, his republican rival. as a result, the gore campaign and the democratic national committee are preparing television commercials, largely biographical, for which he has been taping scenes over the last few weeks. they will highlight his experiences outside of washington, including his time in tennessee as a divinity student and a journalist, and his family, including the fact that he has been married 30 years and is a new grandfather. elaine kamark, mr. gore's domestic policy adviser, noted that since 1992 he has held annual conferences on topics related to the family, like medical care for children and stresses on the modern family. she said these policy discussions brought out the best in the vice president, and gave the greatest insight into both his character and his views about what was important. today mr. gore spent the day at the cordova school, a 1,120-student magnet school here outside memphis, his sixth such visit to schools around the country since the end of the primary season in march. his main message today, as it has been during previous school visits, was to emphasize the involvement of parents in their children's lives. the level of detail into which he becomes engrossed was evident in his response to a question about the behavior of children on school buses. ''one of the school bus drivers in a school in north carolina made a suggestion that might go to your question,'' mr. gore said. ''he said that when children bring home their report cards on how they are doing in their course work that they ought to get a grade in bus.'' mr. gore's west point appearance this weekend has prompted criticism from another veteran who wonders where the line is between allowing a vice president to address the academy if he is also a political candidate. asked how those who attend the ceremony might distinguish mr. gore the vice president from mr. gore the presidential candidate, major whaley said the vice president's right to speak ''to future leaders of our nation and our army'' cannot be taken away from him because he is aspiring to higher office. the question by republicans about mr. gore's appearance at the military academy seemed more of a warning than concern about the past, putting mr. gore and his campaign on notice that, say, using the platform of a service academy commencement, either for television commercials or political remarks, would cross a line. george w. bush -- no public events  al gore -- west point, n.y. george w. bush -- no public events  al gore -- west point, n.y. gore's new campaign strategy  vice president al gore is to begin a new tack today that will blend personal and biographical details with policy matters in an effort to reach voters on a human level. bush backs vatican u.n. status  gov. george w. bush took the side of the vatican in a controversy over its status at the united nations. the dispute stems largely from vatican stands on issues involving family planning and abortion. gore's new campaign strategy  vice president al gore is to begin a new tack today that will blend personal and biographical details with policy matters in an effort to reach voters on a human level. bush backs vatican u.n. status  gov. george w. bush took the side of the vatican in a controversy over its status at the united nations. the dispute stems largely from vatican stands on issues involving family planning and abortion. bush bypasses texas convention -- gov. george w. bush will skip the texas republican party convention in houston next month. the decision, reported in the houston chronicle on friday, has prompted speculation that the decision grew out of skirmishes with conservative elements of the party, but bush campaign aides insisted otherwise. ''the governor will be campaigning in florida and kentucky at that time,'' said ray sullivan, a campaign spokesman in austin. ''but laura bush is planning to address the convention as his representative.'' mr. sullivan denied that there were any lingering problems with anti-abortion elements of the party that, during the 1996 texas convention, stripped mr. bush of a governor's traditional role as leader of the state delegation to the national convention. bush bypasses texas convention -- gov. george w. bush will skip the texas republican party convention in houston next month. the decision, reported in the houston chronicle on friday, has prompted speculation that the decision grew out of skirmishes with conservative elements of the party, but bush campaign aides insisted otherwise. ''the governor will be campaigning in florida and kentucky at that time,'' said ray sullivan, a campaign spokesman in austin. ''but laura bush is planning to address the convention as his representative.'' mr. sullivan denied that there were any lingering problems with anti-abortion elements of the party that, during the 1996 texas convention, stripped mr. bush of a governor's traditional role as leader of the state delegation to the national convention. neighborly advice -- crawford high school in crawford, texas, had never had a commencement speaker until gov. george w. bush volunteered, choosing the friday night event to say hello to his new neighbors. the texas governor last year bought a ranch -- expected to be a sort of western white house if he is elected -- about 7 miles west of crawford, 115 miles southwest of dallas. in his talk, mr. bush gave the 45 graduates some advice, including, ''i've learned that no matter how old you are or how important your job is you can never escape your mother.'' one came in the carter administration, setting aside more than five million acres as wilderness, and another in the bush administration, when congress agreed to phase out much of a subsidy that was allowing two major timber companies to pay as little as $2 for huge sitka spruce logs that would fetch about $300 on the open market. the subsidy dated to the 1950's, when the united states forest service agreed to provide a steady supply of timber at low prices to two companies that agreed to build pulp mills in the area. in any case, the ''internationalist'' republicans who supported president bush's persian gulf war in 1991 suddenly became ''isolationist'' republicans who opposed president clinton over military action in somalia (where mr. bush actually had sent the troops), as well as in bosnia and kosovo. the democrats, meanwhile, eagerly seized the labels the republicans had dropped. bush s bush s bush s