 george w. bush -- the kentucky derby al gore -- washington george w. bush -- the kentucky derby al gore -- washington ''bowling alone'' touched a public nerve and became a metaphor for a much larger national malaise. mr. putnam suddenly found himself profiled in people magazine. he appeared on talk shows, and president clinton invited him to camp david. most recently both al gore and george w. bush have tapped him for advice, or their aides have. vice pres al gore vows to veto any measure prohibiting cities from suing gun manufacturers, measure gun manufacturers have been lobbying federal lawmakers to pass; gov george w bush suggests he might support bill, noting that in texas, he signed bill making it very difficult for local municipalities to sue manufacturers of legal product; divergent statements of gore and bush continue often tense back-and-forth over gun control that has lasted several days and signaled potential potency of issue in 2000 elections; each candidate has been trying to cast doubt on his opponent's commitment to gun control, and each has tried to tar other by linking him to national rifle assn; photo (m) the lines that divide the presidential candidates on the issue of gun control came into sharper focus today, as vice president al gore vowed to veto any measure prohibiting cities from suing gun manufacturers and gov. george w. bush suggested he might support it. gun manufacturers have been lobbying federal lawmakers for such legislation; mr. gore, in an interview today, pledged to block that effort and questioned whether mr. bush would do likewise. the lines that divide the presidential candidates on the issue of gun control came into sharper focus today, as vice president al gore vowed to veto any measure prohibiting cities from suing gun manufacturers and gov. george w. bush suggested he might support it. gun manufacturers have been lobbying federal lawmakers for such legislation; mr. gore, in an interview today, pledged to block that effort and questioned whether mr. bush would do likewise. ''i challenge governor bush to make the same pledge,'' mr. gore said in an interview with political points, the webcast of the new york times and abc news. ''will he veto any bill that lets gun manufacturers off the hook? will he fight for the gun industry or for america's families?'' when mr. bush was asked about that at a subsequent news conference here, he said, ''it depends on what's in the legislation.'' mr. bush was referring to a 1999 law that required lawsuits against gun makers to be filed, on behalf of texas cities or counties, by the state attorney general, who might or might not support that course of action. the measure was similar to ones supported by other republican governors, and reflected their general push to curb civil litigation in an array of areas. the divergent statements of mr. gore and mr. bush continued an often tense back-and-forth over gun control that has lasted several days and signaled the potential potency of the issue in the 2000 elections. each candidate has been trying to cast doubt on his opponent's commitment to gun control, and each has been trying to tar the other by linking him to the national rifle association. at his news conference, mr. bush said that mr. gore had a voting history in congress of support for the n.r.a.'s positions and a good deal of explaining to do. as mr. bush's aides circulated a brief document, titled ''al gore & guns,'' that cited examples from the 1980's of mr. gore's agreements with the gun lobby, the governor used a news conference here today to cast the vice president as a candidate whose current advocacy of more stringent restrictions on firearms was simply the latest fashion, not a matter of steadfast principle. ''when it was convenient politically, he voted one way,'' mr. bush said, ''and when it's convenient politically, he's changed his tune.'' mr. bush also refused to back off his suggestion on thursday that mr. gore was once a member of the n.r.a. and, when challenged today to say how he knew that, offered no proof. instead, he reminded reporters that he ended his statement about mr. gore and the n.r.a. with the phrase ''if i'm not mistaken,'' and told them it was their job to verify the assertion and mr. gore's responsibility to show that he was not a member of the group. william powers, a spokesman for the gun organization, said he had found no evidence that mr. gore had been a member. but he said that when mr. gore was a congressman from tennessee, ''he certainly received very high ratings from the n.r.a.'' douglas hattaway, a spokesman for the gore campaign, said that it could not find any record of mr. gore's ever being a member of the n.r.a., and that the vice president ''doesn't have any recollection of it.'' ''but it's an irrelevant issue anyway,'' mr. hattaway added. ''al gore is standing up to the n.r.a.'s leadership and its increasingly extreme agenda, while bush is doing their bidding.'' the exchanges between the bush and gore campaigns were touched off in part by a gun control group's distribution this week of a television commercial featuring footage of an n.r.a. official saying that if mr. bush became president, the organization would be working out of the white house. mr. bush said that was not true. his efforts today to turn the tables on mr. gore seemed to reflect not only the ascendancy of gun control as a political issue but also mr. bush's desire to court swing voters, many of whom favor greater regulation of firearms. and mr. bush took his swipes at mr. gore during his third day of campaigning in california, a state full of such voters. in fact, mr. bush's campaign schedule here this week represented an especially aggressive attempt to portray the texas governor as a progressive, open-minded republican by emphasizing his sensitivity of religious and ethnic diversity. in recognition of cinco de mayo, a mexican-american holiday, mr. bush delivered a long address here this morning on the shared values of latinos and other americans. in it mr. bush used more spanish phrases and sentences than he had previously used on the campaign trail this year. mr. bush's remarks, delivered to hundreds of people at a ''breakfast fiesta'' sponsored by a private group called the u.s.-mexico foundation, followed a series of events, encounters and photo opportunities -- many of them filmed by the candidate's advertising team -- that put mr. bush together with latino and roman catholic voters. the first group is crucial to mr. bush's hopes of winning california. the second is key to his success nationwide, and mr. bush has been working especially hard to appeal to catholics since his controversial appearance in february at bob jones university in south carolina, a school with a history of anti-catholic bias. the bush campaign also said today that mr. bush would postpone a speech about social security, scheduled for monday, so that he could attend the funeral mass for cardinal john o'connor in new york. according to the bush campaign document about mr. gore's record on gun control in congress, he supported a measure to remove a ban on interstate sales of rifles, shotguns and handguns; opposed a 14-day waiting period for handgun purchases, and from 1985 to 1990, as a  senator from tennessee, cast votes that were in line with the wishes of the n.r.a. three-quarters of the time. mr. hattaway did not dispute that, saying that mr. gore's positions had evolved with the growing prevalence of gun-related violence in the country. he also said the n.r.a. is more extreme now than it has been in the past. mr. hattaway noted that mr. gore now advocates a much wider array of restrictions on firearms than mr. bush, who signed legislation in texas that permitted people to carry concealed handguns and seemed in other ways to agree with the n.r.a. recently, though, mr. bush chastised an official with the organization for making inflammatory statements about president clinton. he also signaled a slightly greater receptiveness to some gun-control proposals. and he has tried to link mr. gore to the n.r.a. excerpts from prepared text of speech about education that vice pres al gore delivers to teachers union in lansing, mich (m)� following are excerpts from the prepared text of a speech about education that vice president al gore delivered yesterday to the teachers union in lansing, mich., as provided by mr. gore's campaign: following are excerpts from the prepared text of a speech about education that vice president al gore delivered yesterday to the teachers union in lansing, mich., as provided by mr. gore's campaign: photo of vice pres al gore outlining his education plan in holt, mich vice pres al gore promises to spend billions of dollars to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if states and teachers' unions agree that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone; makes speech before teachers union in lansing, mich, on his fourth 'school day,' then spends day at high school in holt, mich; education ranks near top of voter concerns; gore's rival, gov george w bush, has devoted considerable attention to education in hopes of wooing swing voters; gore campaign is countering bush's initiatives with proposals that do not just allocate federal money but also make demands of teachers and school districts; photo (m) vice president al gore promised today to spend billions of dollars to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if the states and teachers' unions agreed that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone. ''if i am entrusted with the presidency, i will ensure that there is a fully qualified, well-trained teacher in every single classroom, everywhere in this nation, before the next four years is out,'' mr. gore said in a speech here to the michigan education association. vice president al gore promised today to spend billions of dollars to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if the states and teachers' unions agreed that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone. ''if i am entrusted with the presidency, i will ensure that there is a fully qualified, well-trained teacher in every single classroom, everywhere in this nation, before the next four years is out,'' mr. gore said in a speech here to the michigan education association. education ranks near the top of voter concerns, especially in important states like michigan, where mr. gore held his fourth ''school day'' today, spending all day at the high school in nearby holt. the speech was yet another effort by mr. gore to spell out the details of his education plan, which would devote $115 billion to education over 10 years. education is an area to which mr. gore's republican rival, gov. george w. bush of texas, has devoted considerable attention in hopes of wooing swing voters. polls show mr. bush has been successful in this effort. the gore campaign is countering mr. bush's initiatives with proposals that do not just allocate federal money but also make demands of teachers and school districts. mr. gore proposes requiring teachers to have majored in their subject area in college or to pass a competency test. he would reward outstanding teachers and help schools improve or remove bad teachers quickly, within the academic year as opposed to the three years that removal can take now, aides said. ''while we absolutely must respect due process,'' mr. gore said, ''we have to put an end to endless delays in removing those few teachers who really do need to be removed.'' for years teacher testing and efforts to diminish hiring by seniority have been strongly resisted by teachers' unions. mr. gore's aides hoped that his speech today would be seen as a daring, principled stand that would demonstrate that he did not pander to potent supporters like the teachers' unions or just blow with the political winds. gregory king, a spokesman for sandra feldman, the president of the federation, said mr. gore consulted with ms. feldman on his proposals. she was heartened, mr. king said, that mr. gore would cede some decisions on teacher hiring to ''principals working with teams of teachers, and not just principals.'' mary elizabeth teasley, the director of government relations for the nation's largest teachers' union, the national education association, said her union was comfortable with mr. gore's suggestion that seniority not be the only criterion in teacher hiring. she emphasized, however, that mr. gore was not dismissing seniority as a qualification. mr. gore has been trying to demonstrate his commitment to education in multiple ways, including by spending a full day at a school somewhere in the country every week or so. he spent today at holt high after staying overnight at the home of margot strong, a computer teacher, and her husband, jay, who teaches first grade. mr. gore arrived at their house after midnight on thursday night and stayed up to watch on television four of the five overtime periods in the national hockey league playoff game between the philadelphia flyers and the pittsburgh penguins. in an interview with the school newspaper, mr. gore was asked about abortion. he said he believed it was up to a woman to decide what to do, but he said he also believed in abstinence. for example, gov. george w. bush and vice president al gore both want to attract the independents who supported senator john mccain. why not ask mr. mccain if he would be interested in serving as secretary of defense? he is passionate about improving the lot of the military. for example, gov. george w. bush and vice president al gore both want to attract the independents who supported senator john mccain. why not ask mr. mccain if he would be interested in serving as secretary of defense? he is passionate about improving the lot of the military. weighing budget proposals -- gov. george w. bush of texas began a news conference in san diego yesterday with some heavy lifting: he waved two thick books that represented budget proposals he had sent to the texas legislature in 1997 and 1999, and he lit into vice president al gore anew for suggesting that he did not produce such extensive spending blueprints. the books in his hand, mr. bush said, proved otherwise. only the day before, mr. gore had pulled from his pocket a three-page document that he said was a copy of mr. bush's 1995 budget, telling a reporter that ''if you think that's a budget, then maybe i can convince you it's a duck.'' mr. bush turned to examples from later years and said he was wishing fervently for a campaign ''not full of hyperbole and distortion.'' weighing budget proposals -- gov. george w. bush of texas began a news conference in san diego yesterday with some heavy lifting: he waved two thick books that represented budget proposals he had sent to the texas legislature in 1997 and 1999, and he lit into vice president al gore anew for suggesting that he did not produce such extensive spending blueprints. the books in his hand, mr. bush said, proved otherwise. only the day before, mr. gore had pulled from his pocket a three-page document that he said was a copy of mr. bush's 1995 budget, telling a reporter that ''if you think that's a budget, then maybe i can convince you it's a duck.'' mr. bush turned to examples from later years and said he was wishing fervently for a campaign ''not full of hyperbole and distortion.'' leading the race for no. 2 -- gov. george w. bush and vice president al gore remain tight-lipped about running mates, but an nbc news-wall street journal poll has found that most voters have already made up their minds. among republicans and independents, 40 percent want mr. bush to pick gen. colin l. powell, the retired chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, 20 percent favor senator john mccain of arizona and 15 percent favor elizabeth dole, the former secretary of labor. among democrats and independents, 33 percent want mr. gore to pick former senator bill bradley of new jersey and 18 percent favor senator dianne feinstein of california. the poll surveyed 1,003 registered voters from april 29 to may 1 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. as if to ratify mr. clinton's triumph, the washington post ran a front-page headline on monday: '' 'clinton fatigue' yields to nostalgia.'' the post cited polls showing that not only would democrats vastly prefer mr. clinton to al gore as a candidate this year but that in a recent match-up the president pulled even with george w. bush nationwide. granted, this country has a short memory, but isn't bill clinton the same guy who was impeached and tried only 15 months ago? it's almost an insult to call him the comeback kid. he's had more comebacks than elizabeth taylor, liza minnelli and richard nixon combined. but where, pray tell, are those hearings? apparently clinton nostalgia trumps whatever remains of his opponents' testosterone. reflecting the president's clout, polls showed that 60 percent approved of the raid and 68 percent didn't want any hearings -- numbers consistent with those balking at impeachment hearings and the congressional release of the starr report two years ago. no sooner did the elian inquisition flame out than jim kolbe, an arizona congressman, also decided not ''to pursue any more hearings'' on hillary clinton's government-paid transportation for her senate campaign. such is mr. clinton's political potency that james rogan, a house impeachment prosecutor now battling for re-election in california, popped up with the impeached president in a white house rally for gun control. surely it's only days before william bennett concedes to larry king that, all in all, the clintons' marriage is more credible than that of the other aspiring senatorial couple, the giulianis, who can't even fake a truce for the sake of their kids after a cancer diagnosis.  my first sighting of conspicuous republican nostalgia for mr. clinton was in march, when ben stein, the former nixon speechwriter and host of tv's ''win ben stein's money,'' praised the president in usa today for showing ''a lot of heart'' by sending top administration officials to the funeral of his father, the g.o.p. economist herbert stein. ben stein dislikes mr. clinton, writes for the clinton-bashing journal american spectator and is solidly behind mr. bush. and yet he had this to say over the phone this week: ''i will miss clinton's humanity like i miss nixon's humanity. you know a person is a person by his failings, and clinton has a lot of failings. without that human touch, you lose an important ability to connect with the body politic. two machines are running to replace him -- the gore machine, in which everything is calculated and calibrated, and the bush machine, which is even more so. i don't like the idea of being governed by a machine. i like being governed by someone who has as many failings as i do.'' mr. hammond is ready to go with his impersonation of al gore -- possibly tonight -- but is mindful of the vast difference between the two men. ''clinton only shows you what he wants you to see,'' he says. ''gore shows you what he wants to show you and everything else. you see the puppet and the puppetmaster. you see the ventriloquist's mouth move. the poor guy is trying too hard. so much preparation, so earnest, so much fumbling and stumbling. he should go out and say i can't act, i can't dance -- or nothing -- but i really want to be president.'' this shortfall makes it unlikely that clinton nostalgia will automatically benefit mr. gore come fall. if anything, the closest heir to mr. clinton so far is mr. bush. the president indicated as much in his stand-up routine, when he joked that the texas governor had hijacked his old dick morris campaign strategy of ''moving toward the political center, distancing himself from his own party [and] stealing ideas from the other party.'' the parallels don't end there, or with the unsubstantiated drug rumors that have stalked both men without ever denting their political fortunes. in the '92 campaign, mr. clinton said that ''the most important thing'' he had accomplished as governor of arkansas was improving education -- a claim no more borne out by arkansas's dismal rankings in students' test scores than are mr. bush's hyperbolic claims for texas. mr. bush's ''compassionate conservatism'' -- in which the federal government plays bite-sized roles in helping to feel and soothe americans' pain -- lifts specific ideas from mr. clinton's new democrat policies. both men also have in common the repellent trait of advertising their toughness on crime by savage brandishing of the death penalty as governors: mr. clinton refused clemency to the brain-damaged rickey ray rector; mr. bush denied clemency to karla faye tucker and then mocked her in a talk magazine interview with tucker carlson. this isn't to say that mr. bush is remotely in the clinton league as entertainer in chief; no one is. reading up for his game show on presidents who ''were grossly overweight, got drunk and went to all-night parties,'' ben stein ruefully observed, ''clinton will be the last of the rollicking over-the-top characters for the foreseeable future.'' differing on gun lawsuits  vice president al gore vowed to veto any measure prohibiting cities from suing gun manufacturers, while gov. george w. bush suggested he might support such a measure. mr. bush also cast the vice president as a candidate whose advocacy of more stringent restrictions on firearms was simply the latest fashion, not a matter of steadfast principle. gore's proposals on teachers  vice president al gore promised to spend billions to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if the states and teachers' unions agreed that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone. breaching the dams is bitterly opposed by many people as an assault on the area's agricultural economy, and the proposal has already emerged as a hot-button issue in the northwest in this year's presidential race. gov. george w. bush of texas vowed in the primary campaign here never to allow the dams to be breached, while vice president al gore, part of an administration that is intensely debating the issue, has taken no public position. for the funeral mass, more than 3,500 tickets will be issued for a cathedral that seats 2,300. president and mrs. clinton will attend, secret service in tow. vice president al gore, gov. george w. bush of texas, gov. george e. pataki and mayor rudolph w. giuliani plan to come, as well. during the mass at 2 p.m. monday, the streets around st. patrick's will be closed to traffic. gelbard-ruth fisher. on may 4, 2000, at age 85. wife of the late charles gelbard. beloved mother of robert gelbard, united states ambassador to indonesia, and nicholas gelbard of cloverdale, or. beloved grandmother of nathan, anna and alexandra. ruth gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the brooklyn democratic party-she will be missed by all. funeral at boulevard-riverside, flatbush ave. and ave l, brooklyn, sunday, may 7, 9 am. gelbard-ruth fisher. on may 4, 2000, at age 85. wife of the late charles gelbard. beloved mother of robert gelbard, united states ambassador to indonesia, and nicholas gelbard of cloverdale, or. beloved grandmother of nathan, anna and alexandra. ruth gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the brooklyn democratic party-she will be missed by all. funeral at boulevard-riverside, flatbush ave. and ave l, brooklyn, sunday, may 7, 9 am. GELBARD-Ruth Fisher. On May 4, 2000, at age 85. Wife of the late Charles Gelbard. Beloved mother of Robert Gelbard, United States Ambassador to Indonesia, and Nicholas Gelbard of Cloverdale, OR. Beloved grandmother of Nathan, Anna and Alexandra. Ruth Gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the Brooklyn Democratic Party-she will be missed by all. Funeral at Boulevard-Riverside, Flatbush Ave. and Ave L, Brooklyn, Sunday, May 7, 9 AM. GELBARD-Ruth Fisher. On May 4, 2000, at age 85. Wife of the late Charles Gelbard. Beloved mother of Robert Gelbard, United States Ambassador to Indonesia, and Nicholas Gelbard of Cloverdale, OR. Beloved grandmother of Nathan, Anna and Alexandra. Ruth Gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the Brooklyn Democratic Party-she will be missed by all. Funeral at Boulevard-Riverside, Flatbush Ave. and Ave L, Brooklyn, Sunday, May 7, 9 AM. GELBARD-Ruth Fisher. On May 4, 2000, at age 85. Wife of the late Charles Gelbard. Beloved mother of Robert Gelbard, United States Ambassador to Indonesia, and Nicholas Gelbard of Cloverdale, OR. Beloved grandmother of Nathan, Anna and Alexandra. Ruth Gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the Brooklyn Democratic Party-she will be missed by all. Funeral at Boulevard-Riverside, Flatbush Ave. and Ave L, Brooklyn, Sunday, May 7, 9 AM. GELBARD-Ruth Fisher. On May 4, 2000, at age 85. Wife of the late Charles Gelbard. Beloved mother of Robert Gelbard, United States Ambassador to Indonesia, and Nicholas Gelbard of Cloverdale, OR. Beloved grandmother of Nathan, Anna and Alexandra. Ruth Gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the Brooklyn Democratic Party-she will be missed by all. Funeral at Boulevard-Riverside, Flatbush Ave. and Ave L, Brooklyn, Sunday, May 7, 9 AM. GELBARD-Ruth Fisher. On May 4, 2000, at age 85. Wife of the late Charles Gelbard. Beloved mother of Robert Gelbard, United States Ambassador to Indonesia, and Nicholas Gelbard of Cloverdale, OR. Beloved grandmother of Nathan, Anna and Alexandra. Ruth Gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the Brooklyn Democratic Party-she will be missed by all. Funeral at Boulevard-Riverside, Flatbush Ave. and Ave L, Brooklyn, Sunday, May 7, 9 AM. GELBARD-Ruth Fisher. On May 4, 2000, at age 85. Wife of the late Charles Gelbard. Beloved mother of Robert Gelbard, United States Ambassador to Indonesia, and Nicholas Gelbard of Cloverdale, OR. Beloved grandmother of Nathan, Anna and Alexandra. Ruth Gelbard was an indispensable stalwart of the Brooklyn Democratic Party-she will be missed by all. Funeral at Boulevard-Riverside, Flatbush Ave. and Ave L, Brooklyn, Sunday, May 7, 9 AM.