 gov. george w. bush of texas, whom mr. gregg strongly supported in the new hampshire presidential primary, has not addressed blocking the peacekeeping money, said condoleeza rice, mr. bush's chief foreign policy adviser. ''obviously,'' ms. rice said, ''the administration has some very hard work to do with congress over the peacekeeping issue.'' pitting brother against brother -- trying to foment a bit of sibling discord, the gore campaign yesterday circulated a newspaper article by gov. jeb bush of florida that seemed to contradict a plan by his brother gov. george w. bush of texas to allow taxpayers to invest some social security payroll taxes in the stock market. in an april 18 op-ed piece in the tallahassee democrat, jeb bush argued that, because of the stock market's volatility, the state pension system should put part of its $12 billion surplus in a fund that would be reserved for a downturn. ''it makes sense that we take the surplus we have now and place it in a reserve that is not affected by changes in the market,'' he wrote. mr. gore's aides said that suggested mr. bush wants to withdraw some pension funds from the stock market. a spokesman for jeb bush said the gore campaign had misread the article. pitting brother against brother -- trying to foment a bit of sibling discord, the gore campaign yesterday circulated a newspaper article by gov. jeb bush of florida that seemed to contradict a plan by his brother gov. george w. bush of texas to allow taxpayers to invest some social security payroll taxes in the stock market. in an april 18 op-ed piece in the tallahassee democrat, jeb bush argued that, because of the stock market's volatility, the state pension system should put part of its $12 billion surplus in a fund that would be reserved for a downturn. ''it makes sense that we take the surplus we have now and place it in a reserve that is not affected by changes in the market,'' he wrote. mr. gore's aides said that suggested mr. bush wants to withdraw some pension funds from the stock market. a spokesman for jeb bush said the gore campaign had misread the article. seeking running-mate suggestions -- gov. george w. bush of texas sent letters to 450 republicans yesterday seeking advice on a running mate. in the three-paragraph request, which went to united states senators, representatives, governors, state republican committee members, state party chairmen and bush for president committees, the governor said: ''my primary concern is to select someone who is capable of serving as president of the united states. i am interested in your thoughts as to individuals whom i should consider as well as any particular issues you believe i should take into account.'' separately, in a fox news television interview, mr. bush repeated that while he opposed abortion, he would accept a running mate who favored abortion rights -- within limits. some leaders of the religious right have said mr. bush risks losing support should he pick a supporter of abortion rights. competing social security plans  social security is slowly going broke, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush of texas agree, but they differ on the solutions for fixing it. mr. gore would channel the benefits of the federal budget surplus into the system. governor bush would establish private investment accounts through which workers could seek higher returns on their contributions to the retirement system. [a23.] senate rejects deadline for kosovo withdrawal  the senate voted, 53 to 47, against a measure to set a deadline for withdrawing american troops from kosovo. the measure was opposed by the clinton administration and by governor george w. bush, although 40 republicans voted for it. senate rejects deadline for kosovo withdrawal  the senate voted, 53 to 47, against a measure to set a deadline for withdrawing american troops from kosovo. the measure was opposed by the clinton administration and by governor george w. bush, although 40 republicans voted for it. skipp porteous, national director of institute for first amendment studies, has been trying to find out, though as yet without success, what gov george w bush told council for national policy when he met with group during two-day cobnference in san antonio last oct; porteous regards council as secretive umbrella group plotting strategy for the republican right; he sent for videotapes of conference only to find out bush's speech was not included; council says all speakers were asked for permission to include their remarks on tape and that bush campaign had declined (m) it is the sort of group a republican presidential hopeful would presumably want to address, which is exactly what gov. george w. bush of texas did last october when the council held a two-day conference in san antonio. but what exactly did mr. bush say? it is the sort of group a republican presidential hopeful would presumably want to address, which is exactly what gov. george w. bush of texas did last october when the council held a two-day conference in san antonio. but what exactly did mr. bush say? eager to know what mr. bush might say in private to conservative leaders, mr. porteous sent for audiotapes of the conference. the council sells audiotapes of conferences to members only, but the institute had obtained an order form from the company, skynet media, that handles the recording. so when a package arrived earlier this year, mr. porteous thought success was at hand. but the tape of mr. bush's speech was not included. morton c. blackwell, the council's executive director, said all speakers were asked for permission to include their remarks on the tapes and that the bush campaign had declined. ''the bush entourage said they preferred that the tape not go out, though i could not see any reason why they shouldn't,'' mr. blackwell said. ari fleischer, a spokesman for the bush campaign, said that if anyone was ''hoping to hear something that the governor would say that he hasn't said publicly, then they're on a wild goose chase.'' he declined to characterize the speech, saying, ''when we go to meetings that are private, they remain private.'' but mr. blackwell said the bush campaign should have a copy. senate narrowly rejects measure to set deadline for withdrawing american ground troops from kosovo, in victory for clinton administration; vote is 53 to 47, with 40 republicans voting for measure even though gov george w bush opposed it; clinton cabinet officers waged all-out campaign to defeat measure, warning of dangers to american troops and washington's commitment to nato operation if measure passed; outcome was close enough and important enough for vice pres al gore to preside over roll-call, prepared to cast tie-breaking vote if needed; bush had called measure 'legislative overreach' that would tie his hands if he became president; photo (m) in a victory for the clinton administration, the senate today narrowly rejected a measure to set a deadline for withdrawing american ground troops from kosovo. gov. george w. bush of texas had also criticized the measure, but even so 40 republicans voted for it. in a victory for the clinton administration, the senate today narrowly rejected a measure to set a deadline for withdrawing american ground troops from kosovo. gov. george w. bush of texas had also criticized the measure, but even so 40 republicans voted for it. the outcome was close enough, and important enough for the administration, that vice president al gore presided over the roll-call, prepared to cast a tie-breaking vote if needed. ''to have been forced to withdraw in this manner would have demoralized our allies and emboldened those in the region who favor violence as a solution to their disputes,'' mr. gore said in a statement. fifteen of the 55 republicans voted for a democratic amendment to strike the withdrawal language from the $8.6 billion military construction spending bill. at least two or three republicans said they were swayed by mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, but many others were not, and they could challenge him on foreign policy if he becomes president. [news analysis, page a10.] ''i'm glad bush said what he said because it showed this was not aimed at this president in particular,'' said thad cochran of mississippi, who was among those persuaded by mr. bush. earlier this week, mr. bush criticized the provision, calling it a ''legislative overreach'' that would tie his hands if he became president. today, a spokesman for mr. bush, scott mcclellan, said, ''the senate made the right decision.'' george w. bush -- paducah, hopkinsville and bowling green, ky.  al gore -- washington george w. bush -- paducah, hopkinsville and bowling green, ky.  al gore -- washington vice pres al gore's wife, tipper, appears firm in her conviction that she can maintain zone of privacy even as her husband runs for president; she is reluctant to talk about public-private balancing act, but campaign aides say she is fearful of how presidential campaign might consume her family life; she says she hopes to continue activities she does now with relative anonymity, like volunteer work and going to movies with her husband, even as campaign heats up; tipper gore's mixed feelings about her public and private lives may stem from her very public role as voice of parental outrage over sexual and violent content of rock music lyrics in mid-1980's; that effort led to recording industry's placement of warning labels on albums with explicit content, but it also earned her enmity of many in music industry, and she was called 'cultural terrorist' by musician frank zappa; campaign advisers say tipper gore's real value in campaign is helping her husband relax and keeping family's priorities in front of him; photos (m) here is one difference between tipper gore and hillary clinton. at sunday's million mom march on behalf of gun control, mrs. clinton, wearing a light spring pantsuit and straw hat, was so busy working the crowds that she created rally gridlock. mrs. gore, wearing a white t-shirt tucked into her blue jeans, marched arm in arm with other women, without an entourage and relatively unheralded. here is one difference between tipper gore and hillary clinton. at sunday's million mom march on behalf of gun control, mrs. clinton, wearing a light spring pantsuit and straw hat, was so busy working the crowds that she created rally gridlock. mrs. gore, wearing a white t-shirt tucked into her blue jeans, marched arm in arm with other women, without an entourage and relatively unheralded. but the two women's different styles at the march offered a vivid contrast between their current approaches to their public roles. mrs. clinton's high-stakes political ambition has thrust her into a public life with very little private space. mrs. gore, on the other hand, appears reluctant and ambivalent about her public role yet firm in her conviction that she can maintain a zone of privacy -- a phrase that mrs. clinton coined -- even if her husband, al, happens to be running for president. having spent nearly half of her life as a political wife, mrs. gore, who is 51, has had plenty of opportunity to consider what may lie ahead if her husband, the vice president for seven years and now the presumptive democratic nominee, becomes president. but, she said with some trepidation in a recent interview, ''it's a whole new territory for me.'' mrs. gore is reluctant to talk about the public-private balancing act, but campaign aides said she was fearful of how a presidential campaign might consume her family life. at times the gores' 26-year-old daughter, karenna gore schiff, seems more comfortable in the public spotlight than her mother.  (karenna is an adviser to the gore campaign, but her siblings -- kristin, who is 23; sarah, 21; and albert 3d, 17 -- have kept lower profiles.) mrs. gore ''wants to maintain her individuality,'' an aide to mr. gore said. ''that will be a struggle.'' even as the campaign heats up, mrs. gore said, she hopes to continue activities she does now with relative anonymity -- like searching out the homeless at night and encouraging them into shelters, or going out with her husband to see movies in actual theaters, rather than in private screening rooms. mrs. gore's mixed feelings about her mixed lives may stem from her very public role as the voice of parental outrage over the sexual and violent content of rock music lyrics, a self-styled crusade in the mid-1980's that earned her the enmity of many in the music industry. at the time, the musician frank zappa branded her as a ''cultural terrorist'' and dismissed her effort as a ''housewife-hobby project.'' mrs. gore defends those efforts, which led to the recording industry's placement of warning labels on albums that contained explicit content. mrs. gore may insist on her privacy -- friday is the gores' 30th wedding anniversary, an occasion that her husband has trumpeted on the campaign trail, but that she wants to be spent privately -- but also lives a public life. earlier this month, for instance, she appeared on stage at robert f. kennedy stadium in washington and played the drums in front of 45,000 people at a concert on the eve of a gay rights march. (mrs. gore played the drums in a girl group, the wildcats, in high school and is surely the only candidate's wife to have played with members of the grateful dead.) she frequently talks to youth audiences and, having disclosed last year that she fought her own battle with depression, the conversations often touch on the darker side of teenage life. on wednesday, she represented the gores at the funeral for the son of representative bart stupak, democrat of michigan. the 17-year-old son had committed suicide. at a recent speech in virginia to the parents of gays and lesbians, mrs. gore talked in a soft, hesitant voice about the need for ''unconditional love.'' but she also advocates on behalf of her husband's causes. at a union event last week in cincinnati, she called for equal pay for women. campaign advisers said mrs. gore had ''a seat at the table'' but this is more figurative than literal. she is not involved in the day-to-day tactical discussions or strategy conference calls, they said. but she is perceived as a valuable asset who can cover the so-called secondary media markets. her real value, said those who know her well, is helping mr. gore relax and keeping the family's priorities in front of him. mrs. gore does not much like to describe how she would see her role as first lady or to compare herself with mrs. clinton. but from all indications, she would be in the more traditional mold. in an interview last year with the associated press, mrs. gore said: ''with four children and aging parents, i find that i only spend so much time on issues that i care about, and i spend a lot of time on keeping the family together.'' mrs. gore's counterpart on the republican side, laura bush, has also seemed somewhat uncomfortable in the spotlight. she was a reluctant participant in george w. bush's first political race, in 1978, and was not eager for him to run for governor of texas or for the presidency. mrs. gore's campaign appearances trail have subsided since her husband wrapped up the nomination in march. in february, she campaigned on 20 of 28 days of the month in 22 states. by april, she was down to 10 days. ''we expect to be back in action fairly soon,'' said camille johnston, mrs. gore's spokeswoman. indeed, the traditional campaign role of chief family helpmate sometimes seems to be occupied by her daughter karenna, who graduated from columbia law school on tuesday. mrs. schiff has emerged as an influential adviser to her father, particularly on addressing concerns of  her generation. and mr. gore appears keen on grooming her for a life in politics. over the years, and especially in this campaign, mr. gore has sent mixed signals about what he views as private, often drawing on his family archives to help soften his image. when mr. gore and his son hiked up mount rainier last summer, reporters were not told of the outing until the two had reached bottom. but before the washington state primary this year, his campaign used the trek in a commercial. gil troy, a professor of american history at mcgill university and author of a book about presidential couples (''mr. and mrs. president, from the trumans to the clintons,'' university press of kansas), said that much of mrs. gore's life was ''poignant and frustrating'' but also a bit disingenuous. but, mr. troy added, ''if tipper gore really wants her privacy, she should have told al to run for president of the kiwanis club.'' ms. ireland said she did not expect mrs. gore ''to be out there articulating the intricacy of issues,'' but that she could help gain respect for full-time mothers and homemakers. mark mckinnon, stuart stevens and russell schriefer are among those heading maverick media, organization, austin, texas, assembled with express goal of cultivating gov george w bush's appeal on radio and television, stressing a postive image; mckinnon says al gore has always runs negative campaigns; pre-emptive protests voiced by group's members seen possible indication of jitteriness among staff of maverick team, who face formidible task in trying to match experience of their democratic opposition, veteran media strategists like carter eskew and robert shrum; photo of mckinnon and stevens (l) the words echo across the highly suspect political road of good intentions. ''we're not going to run that kind of race,'' insisted stuart stevens, one of gov. george w. bush's advertising people. ''tonally, we will run another kind of race.'' if the gore campaign does get vicious, the bush image-makers say, it will not be because the mud was slung first from austin. ''they're planning on running a mean, nasty, negative race,'' said mr. stevens's colleague, russell schriefer. the words echo across the highly suspect political road of good intentions. ''we're not going to run that kind of race,'' insisted stuart stevens, one of gov. george w. bush's advertising people. ''tonally, we will run another kind of race.'' if the gore campaign does get vicious, the bush image-makers say, it will not be because the mud was slung first from austin. ''they're planning on running a mean, nasty, negative race,'' said mr. stevens's colleague, russell schriefer. the view was repeated in the agency's headquarters here as if it were a mantra. ''gore has always run negative campaigns,'' said mark mckinnon, the bush camp's chief ad maker. to which mr. stevens added, ''they would take offense if you accused them of running a positive one.'' not for nothing do the members of maverick media, the organization assembled for the express goal of cultivating mr. bush's appeal on radio and television, operate out of a basement warren of offices they call the bunker: the first steady, 30-second barrages of the general election have not even been set off yet, and already the bush message people are crying foul. but when the opposition consists of the likes of carter eskew and robert shrum, veteran media strategists for vice president al gore who have take-no-prisoners reputations, the question arises: does mr. bush need a team that plays by the marquess of queensberry rules, or by mike tyson's? can maverick avoid the errors made in bill bradley's political advertising, which never adequately answered mr. gore's incessant criticisms? that sensibility is reflected in many of the spots mr. mckinnon creates for mr. bush, warm and fuzzy images reminiscent of the upbeat advertisements for ronald reagan. the mckinnon style is more documentary; the innovation maverick introduced in the primaries was the ''crash ad,'' filmed, edited and on the air in 24 hours. and his spots feature lots of shimmering boilerplate: shots of mr. bush wading into smiling crowds, posed in dazzling sunshine with his wife, laura, or offering his family-sampler takes on heart-tugging issues. ''i believe every child can learn,'' he said in one education spot. mr. mckinnon and company know they cannot run their campaign on happy talk; indeed, alongside the sunny spots, mr. bush and his allies ran some of the harshest commercials of the primaries, including attack ads that portrayed senator mccain as an enemy of the environment and breast cancer research. and the question of tone is not their only challenge. although mr. bush is an immensely likable candidate, questions about his grasp of foreign affairs and other issues could be magnified in comparisons with mr. gore, and some political observers wonder if maverick will be able to fill in the gaps. ''here's the hard thing,'' said paul begala, a former adviser to president clinton who has known and liked mr. mckinnon since their days together at the university of texas. ''mark's greatest strength is style, and bush has a style that meshes well with mark's. in small settings bush is very charming: the most charming politician to come down the pike since clinton. mark does an excellent job of capturing that. but at the end of the day there is no filter that can be put on a camera to add gray matter.'' the question of depth is clearly one of the candidate's most vexing image problems. the governor's media advisers, though, maintain that such doubts about mr. bush exist in a land where political commentators reside, but not the voters. as he sat in a windowless conference room ringed with television sets, the affable mr. mckinnon would not be coaxed into a meditation on any of mr. bush's perceived weaknesses. if it seemed a function of a political advertising man's natural inclination to project only the bright side, it also reflected what those who know him say is mr. mckinnon's genuine belief in mr. bush, a deep and abiding affection characteristic of those in the governor's inner circle. former mayor bob lanier of houston, for whom mr. mckinnon made commercials in all three of his successful mayoral campaigns, says there can be only one explanation for mr. mckinnon's signing up: ''if he's supporting george bush, it's because he thinks george bush would make a good president.'' if there are conventional routes to making  commercials for this potential president, mr. mckinnon did not take them. for one thing, he climbed the wrong ladder: he was  a longtime democratic media strategist before signing up with mr. bush, working on the campaigns of, among others, former gov. ann w. richards of texas and former gov. buddy roemer of louisiana. in fact, mr. mckinnon, a colorado-born musician who in his younger days was invited to nashville to write songs for kris kristofferson, had dropped out of politics entirely by the time he fell into a long conversation with mr. bush in a chance encounter at a dinner in austin in 1997. the year before, mr. mckinnon confessed in a most public way -- a first-person article for texas monthly -- that after 15 years of politics, he was burned out. at that austin dinner, though, mr. mckinnon's head was turned. mr. bush seemed to him to evince an honest interest in education, an issue dear to mr. mckinnon; he was making a documentary about the inspirational founder of a houston charter school. ''i was amazed, blown away, by how much attention he paid,'' mr. mckinnon said of the governor, and before long he had signed up to handle media in mr. bush's 1998 campaign for re-election as governor. that is high praise from a mccain aide, considering how aggrieved his boss felt by some of the commercials mr. bush ran in south carolina. the bush campaign had been expecting the most intense media battering to come from the campaign of another primary-election opponent, steve forbes, but it was mr. mccain who surprised mr. bush with the harder hitting commercials, including one in new hampshire in which mr. mccain said mr. bush's tax cuts would mostly benefit the wealthy. some of mr. bush's advisers believe that their failure to answer the commercial was a major factor in their sobering early loss in new hampshire. but by south carolina they had learned from their mistake. in one of the most effective strategies of the primary season, mr. bush was able to turn mr. mccain's clean-campaign vows against him. in an advertisement shot at a fishing camp in south carolina, a serious-looking mr. bush responded to a mccain commercial in which the senator accused the governor of twisting the truth, ''like clinton.'' ''disagree with me, fine,'' mr. bush intoned in his advertisement of reply. ''but do not challenge my integrity.'' ''mark made the best ad of the primaries when bush looked into the camera and said, 'he compared me to clinton,' '' said mr. begala, now a commentator on cnbc's ''equal time.'' ''it gave bush carte blanche to turn his guns on mccain.'' vast amounts of money will be spent on political commercials at all levels this year -- $600 million, according to the television bureau of advertising -- and a lot of it by the bush and gore campaigns. government officials say fbi's director, louis j freeh, warned atty gen janet reno and one of her top deputies in 1996 to remove themselves from investigation into democratic fund-raising after reno's deputy was quoted as saying that reno could lose her job if inquiry proceeded; say freeh's warning was referred to in memo that fbi provided this week to senate investigators who are reviewing justice dept's investigation of campaign fund-raising improprieties by democrats in 1996; memo could cast new light on reno's early decision making and her later decision to turn aside advice of freeh and her own campaign finance prosecutor and close inquiry into vice pres al gore; reno has been harshly criticized for allegedly seeking to protect her superiors; she insists her decision was motivated by lack of evidence (m) the memorandum could cast new light on ms. reno's early decision making in the investigation and her later decision to turn aside the advice of mr. freeh and her own chief campaign finance prosecutor and close an investigation into vice president al gore. that decision greatly eased mr. gore's burden as he prepared to open his bid for the white house, but it embroiled ms. reno in harsh criticism that she was seeking to protect her superiors. she has insisted that her decision not to seek an independent counsel in the case was motivated by a lack of evidence, not by any sort of political pressure. the investigation of democratic fund-raising began in the midst of mr. clinton's re-election campaign in 1996, when justice department prosecutors reviewed several instances of questionable fund-raising by senior democrats, including mr. gore. the temple inquiry eventually exonerated mr. gore, although it led to an conviction of a california fund-raiser, maria hsia, who helped organize mr. gore's visit to the temple. mr. gore said initially that he did not know that the temple event was a fund-raiser, although he later acknowledged that he knew it was ''finance-related.'' re ''bush presents social security as crucial test'' (front page, may 16): i applaud george w. bush's plan to allow individuals to invest their social security money in the stock market. as a 19-year-old student, i know that social security can't provide for me when i retire.  i've already started to save and put my money in the stock market. and i don't like the idea of the government essentially choosing how i am to save for my retirement. re ''bush presents social security as crucial test'' (front page, may 16): i applaud george w. bush's plan to allow individuals to invest their social security money in the stock market. as a 19-year-old student, i know that social security can't provide for me when i retire.  i've already started to save and put my money in the stock market. and i don't like the idea of the government essentially choosing how i am to save for my retirement. jack mcgann letter warns that george w bush's plan to allow workers to invest some of their social security money is going to get us all into trouble (s) george w. bush's plan to allow workers to choose how to invest some of their social security money is going to get us all into trouble (front page, may 16). george w. bush's plan to allow workers to choose how to invest some of their social security money is going to get us all into trouble (front page, may 16). bush may well be able to gamble his wealth on his new social security plan, but there are millions of americans who will need every penny to make ends meet. re ''bush presents social security as crucial test'' (front page, may 16): one question should warn those who think that individual investments will outperform social security: what private pension plan, with its carefully managed investments, has been able to provide cost-of-living increases to its beneficiaries? re ''bush presents social security as crucial test'' (front page, may 16): one question should warn those who think that individual investments will outperform social security: what private pension plan, with its carefully managed investments, has been able to provide cost-of-living increases to its beneficiaries? different plans offered by gov george w bush and vice president al gore in dealing with looming problem of funding social security in the future discussed; bush is proposing private investment accounts through which workers could seek higher returns on their contributions to retirement system; gore is calling for channeling monies from any federal budget surplus back into the system; both men want to avoid tax increases to fund system; bush-gore positions are discussed in context of in-depth explanation of how social security system works, including pros and cons of both candidate's proposals (m) social security is slowly going broke, says gov. george w. bush of texas, and the best way to avoid painful benefit cuts or tax increases is to establish private investment accounts through which workers could seek higher returns on their contributions to the retirement system. social security is slowly going broke, says vice president al gore, and the best way to avoid painful benefit cuts or tax increases is to channel money from the federal budget surplus into the retirement system. social security is slowly going broke, says gov. george w. bush of texas, and the best way to avoid painful benefit cuts or tax increases is to establish private investment accounts through which workers could seek higher returns on their contributions to the retirement system. social security is slowly going broke, says vice president al gore, and the best way to avoid painful benefit cuts or tax increases is to channel money from the federal budget surplus into the retirement system. in supporting private investment accounts, mr. bush's approach centers on increasing the return on the money coming into the system. mr. bush has not provided a detailed plan. but most privatization proposals call for diverting two percentage points of the 12.4 percent payroll tax into accounts that would be owned and controlled by individuals. a worker earning $50,000 a year would have $1,000 a year going to a private account. the bush campaign notes that stocks earned an average annual return, after inflation, of 7.2 percent from 1926 to 1997. by contrast, workers born after 1963 can expect on average a return from their social security contributions of 1.9 percent, according to social security statistics cited by the bush campaign. private accounts would provide a start on social security solvency  over 75 years, the standard normally used in assessing the system's health, mr. bush has said. he has acknowledged that other steps, like benefit cuts, would be needed to finish closing the gap, but has not said what steps he would support. the gore approach mr. gore starts with the premise that the current system should be left more or less intact. his plan is built on the idea that there should be a way to use the current budget surplus to help social security down the road. while the basic idea may be simple, the way the government handles its finances makes executing it quite complicated. starting in 2011, mr. gore would funnel to social security an amount of money equal to the annual interest savings from debt reduction -- $100 billion a year at first, growing to more than $200 billion a year by 2015. mr. gore says the infusion would extend social security's solvency to 2054 from 2037 without having to cut benefits or otherwise alter the system. case against the gore plan since social security cannot hold cash, the transfers would be in the form of government bonds that would be redeemed at some point out of general tax revenue. in that sense, mr. gore's plan would in essence transform social security into a welfare program, senator moynihan said. mr. gore's plan would do nothing to address the underlying imbalance between how much the system takes in and how much it has promised to pay in benefits. ruth karter letter points out that al gore is far more experienced in government than george w bush, whatever polls are said to show (s) re ''poll shows bush ahead of gore, with leadership a crucial issue'' (front page, may 16): i was surprised to see the results of your presidential poll stating that even though the majority was more in agreement with the positions of al gore, they thought that george w. bush would be the better leader. re ''poll shows bush ahead of gore, with leadership a crucial issue'' (front page, may 16): i was surprised to see the results of your presidential poll stating that even though the majority was more in agreement with the positions of al gore, they thought that george w. bush would be the better leader. mr. gore has extensive experience in the senate and as an active vice president, and is well informed on national and foreign affairs. mr. bush has had limited experience as the governor of a single state. both men have made mistakes, but it seems that when mr. bush makes a mistake showing a lack of knowledge or understanding, people don't take it seriously -- they sort of expect it -- yet when mr. gore makes a mistake (as with his interference in the case of elian gonzalez), he is castigated. gov george w bush, in recent pronouncements, has placed himself squarely in republican tradition of favoring internationalism and presidential supremacy in foreign policy; question is how much challenge he would face as president from his own party, which has increasingly fractured over foreign policy in post-cold war era between internationalist and isolationist wing suspicious of many foreign entanglements (news analaysis) with his recent statements on china trade and the deployment of american troops in kosovo, gov. george w. bush has placed himself squarely in a republican tradition of favoring internationalism and presidential supremacy in foreign policy. with his recent statements on china trade and the deployment of american troops in kosovo, gov. george w. bush has placed himself squarely in a republican tradition of favoring internationalism and presidential supremacy in foreign policy. indeed, even though the senate today by a vote of 53-47 shelved a measure -- opposed by president clinton, vice president al gore and mr. bush alike -- that could have terminated american military participation in kosovo next july, it was mostly democrats who ensured the provision's defeat. only 15 of the 55 senate republicans heeded mr. bush's warnings that this was a ''legislative overreach'' that would step on the foreign policy prerogatives of the next president. among those who voted to keep a kosovo withdrawal deadline was the majority leader, trent lott. moreover, this is not an isolated vote. even though most congressional republicans are rallying behind president clinton on granting normalized trade relations with china, legislation that mr. bush also supports, this is an issue of paramount importance to republicans' business constituency. across other areas of foreign policy, where business is less of a factor, there have been a host of occasions over the past years in which congress has declared independence from the president on foreign policy and shown a suspicion of mutlilateral engagements. certainly the idea -- which mr. bush was trying to re-establish in his statement on kosovo -- that congress bows to the president on foreign policy has long disappeared. a key question is how much of this could come back to haunt mr. bush. many republicans say that mr. bush would not face problems from a republican congress -- that many of these votes across the years have stemmed not from republican isolationismbut from the poisonous relations between congress and mr. clinton. ''what this is about on the republican side is a deep dislike and distrust for president clinton, '' said senatorchuck hagel of nebraska, one of the 15 republicans who joined with democrats to defeat the time limit on funds for the deployment. mr. hagel had reached out last week to mr. bush's chief foreign policy adviser, condoleezza rice, to alert the bush campaign of the implications of pending kosovo vote and find out where mr. bush stood. mr. hagel said today that he thought only eight of the senate republicans truly reject internationalism. ''if you have a president bush,'' he said ''you'll find all this settle down considerably in the republican caucus next year. there will be a new found trust and confidence that he's our guy. and if our guy says it's okay to be in kosovo, that makes somewhat of a difference.'' moreover, mr. bush is more in sync with republicans in congress on a number of foreign policy issues. he is interested in building a robust antiballistic missile defense and like mr. helms has said he would rather leave it up to the next president, not mr. clinton, to negotiate with the russians on the issue. he did not split with senate republicans when they voted down the test ban treaty last year. and when mr. bush called for a ''distinctly american internationalism'' in a major foreign policy speech last year, he said that while america must be involved in the world, ''that does not mean our military is the answer to every difficult foreign policy situation -- a substitute for strategy.'' vice president al gore has also wielded the isolationist label against mr. bush. the vice president recently accused him of being ''stuck in a cold war mindset.'' stressing mr. bush's lack of foreign policy experience, mr. gore added, ''one has to assume that these gaps in governor bush's foreign policy views and experience will be filled by the ideologies and inveterate antipathies of his party -- the right-wing, partisan isolationism of the republican congressional leadership.'' he said he had confidence that mr. bush, as president, would immediately set a time limit for disengagement in kosovo. but if mr. bush did not do so, mr. hutchinson said, ''i think you'd see efforts to set deadlines and congres would move to try to disengage there regardless if there's a president gore or a president bush.'' before he made his announcement, mr. giuliani also informed mr. pataki; william d. powers, the state republican party chairman; trent lott, the senate majority leader; senator john mccain and gov. george w. bush, whom mr. giuliani endorsed for president. ''i told rudy that i understood it was a very difficult decision for him to make, and our prayers are with him,'' mr. bush said. ''he is my friend whether he's the candidate or not for the united states senate.'' caryn james critic's notebook review of season-ending episodes of several television series, notably al gore's guest spot on matt groening's animated series futurama; photos (m) last month al gore sat on a couch in the study of the vice president's official residence and said with great urgency: ''get in the tube, dummy! we only have a few seconds before the universe is destroyed.'' he had already made his position on the destruction of the universe clear: ''as an environmentalist, i'm against that.'' mr. gore gives a droll reading while playing himself on the animated comedy ''futurama,'' set in the year 3000. in sunday's time-traveling season finale, the hero, a pizza delivery guy named fry, has stumbled back to his original home in 1999, distorting history, creating a rip in the space-time continuum and making a final big bang imminent. mr. gore is trying to get fry to re-enter the cryogenic tube that took him to the future and so save the world (not a bad thing to have on your resume if you want to be president). last month al gore sat on a couch in the study of the vice president's official residence and said with great urgency: ''get in the tube, dummy! we only have a few seconds before the universe is destroyed.'' he had already made his position on the destruction of the universe clear: ''as an environmentalist, i'm against that.'' mr. gore gives a droll reading while playing himself on the animated comedy ''futurama,'' set in the year 3000. in sunday's time-traveling season finale, the hero, a pizza delivery guy named fry, has stumbled back to his original home in 1999, distorting history, creating a rip in the space-time continuum and making a final big bang imminent. mr. gore is trying to get fry to re-enter the cryogenic tube that took him to the future and so save the world (not a bad thing to have on your resume if you want to be president). matt groening, the creator of ''futurama'' and the mastermind behind ''the simpsons,'' recalled how the guest shot came about. he  had read that mr. gore was a fan of both  shows and called the vice president's staff to ask if he would be willing to play a nerd. in sunday's episode, mr. gore arrives with a band he calls his vice presidential action rangers (also doing their own guest voices), including uhura from ''star trek'' (nichelle nichols) and stephen hawking. ''aren't you that physicist that invented gravity?'' fry asks. ''sure, why not,'' says mr. hawking. who knows whether mr. gore's guest spot will endear him to voters besotted with pop culture, but his presence has inspired one of the wittiest episodes that this uneven year-old series has done. the gore portion of the episode hints that a more topical spin and sharper, irreverent writing (mr. hawking uses his wheelchair as a lethal weapon) could make this series as funny as it should be.