 focusing on cleveland, the evenhanded special presents voucher students whose futures have been salvaged by the opportunity, as well as others who attended a school whose founders absconded with the government's money. there are interviews with vice president al gore, who opposes vouchers, and gov. george w. bush, who supports them, but the documentary makes the point that there is less difference between the candidates' views than their ads contend. (and really, who is against higher standards and better education?) george w. bush -- washington and columbus, ohio  al gore -- washington and pittsburgh george w. bush -- washington and columbus, ohio  al gore -- washington and pittsburgh the 5-foot-7-inch utility player went 3-for-5 with two runs batted in, playing in place of homer bush, who is in an 0-for-11 skid. the 5-foot-7-inch utility player went 3-for-5 with two runs batted in, playing in place of homer bush, who is in an 0-for-11 skid. charlton heston is unanimously re-elected to unprecedented third term as president of national rifle association; pledges to do all possible to defeat vice president al gore, gun control advocate, in november presidential election (s) charlton heston was unanimously re-elected yesterday to an unprecedented third term as president of the national rifle association, the nation's largest gun group. he pledged to do all possible to defeat vice president al gore, a gun control advocate, in this fall's presidential contest and hinted that he might run again next year for a fourth term. charlton heston was unanimously re-elected yesterday to an unprecedented third term as president of the national rifle association, the nation's largest gun group. he pledged to do all possible to defeat vice president al gore, a gun control advocate, in this fall's presidential contest and hinted that he might run again next year for a fourth term. vice pres al gore addresses members of united food and commercial workers union in washington, where he voices perfunctory support for china trade agreement, which union opposes; receives warm welcome; is given standing ovation after pledging to ban use of permanent striker replacements and is applauded at several other points; photo (m) vice president al gore voiced perfunctory support today for the china trade agreement, reading a statement in front of a labor group that opposes the china bill and is rallying in washington against it. mr. gore's appearance before about 175 members of the united food and commercial workers was preceded by a videotape of his acceptance speech last fall after winning the endorsement of the a.f.l.-c.i.o. he began his speech today by mentioning a few of the issues on which they agreed, like raising the minimum wage, instituting new standards for workplace safety and passing a patients' bill of rights. vice president al gore voiced perfunctory support today for the china trade agreement, reading a statement in front of a labor group that opposes the china bill and is rallying in washington against it. mr. gore's appearance before about 175 members of the united food and commercial workers was preceded by a videotape of his acceptance speech last fall after winning the endorsement of the a.f.l.-c.i.o. he began his speech today by mentioning a few of the issues on which they agreed, like raising the minimum wage, instituting new standards for workplace safety and passing a patients' bill of rights. ''on all these issues and on many many more, some of which i'm going to discuss here today, we agree,'' mr. gore said. ''but in candor, i do have to begin here by saying something about an issue where we differ. labor's endorsement of mr. gore and opposition to the china bill has tied one hand behind mr. gore's back as he has stood with the clinton administration on urging passage of the bill. the republicans have been quick to say that mr. gore's support has been tepid, and gov. george w. bush of texas, his republican rival, has suggested that he has been more enthused about the matter than has mr. clinton's own vice president. ''so far, al gore has only paid lip service to his position'' on permanent normal trade relations for china, mindy tucker, a spokeswoman for mr. bush, said in a statement today. ''he may offer tepid support for china p.n.t.r. in a room full of former secretaries of state and ambassadors, but before union audiences, his support disappears.'' but others, like george becker, president of the united steelworkers of america, have said that mr. gore has been lobbying hard for the measure and would suffer for that in november because labor would not work hard for him. mr. gore began his day with breakfast with thabo mbeki, president of south africa, and concluded his evening by attending a state dinner at the white house for him. but gore aides were circumspect about their discussions. mr. gore has come under continuing protest from aids activists -- as recently as last week -- for administration policy that had the effect of blocking cheaper anti-aids drugs to south africa. a gore spokesman said today only that mr. gore and mr. mbeki discussed the matter of aids in africa. an administration official said mr. mbeki discussed the matter with president clinton but was uncertain of mr. gore's involvement. keyes firm on abortion  the abortion issue continues to present potential problems for the republican party, with alan keyes, a presidential candidate, considering leaving the party if it weakens its stance against abortion. connie hair, mr. keyes's press secretary, says he will possibly join the constitution party and seek its nomination if the republicans do not retain a strong anti-abortion position in their platform or if gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumed republican presidential nominee, picks a running mate who is not anti-abortion. the constitution party is strongly anti-abortion. ms. hair made her comments to usa today over the weekend, then elaborated on them yesterday. mr. keyes has not been heard from much lately. but ms. hair emphasized that while mr. keyes reserved the right to abandon the republican party over the abortion issue, he was for the moment still a candidate for the republican nomination, had delegates pledged to him and intended to attend the party convention in philadelphia. the constitution party already has a presidential candidate, howard phillips, who said yesterday, ''i am prepared to discuss anything with alan keyes, including the possibility of his becoming our candidate for president or vice president, but my present intention is to continue as the presidential nominee.'' keyes firm on abortion  the abortion issue continues to present potential problems for the republican party, with alan keyes, a presidential candidate, considering leaving the party if it weakens its stance against abortion. connie hair, mr. keyes's press secretary, says he will possibly join the constitution party and seek its nomination if the republicans do not retain a strong anti-abortion position in their platform or if gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumed republican presidential nominee, picks a running mate who is not anti-abortion. the constitution party is strongly anti-abortion. ms. hair made her comments to usa today over the weekend, then elaborated on them yesterday. mr. keyes has not been heard from much lately. but ms. hair emphasized that while mr. keyes reserved the right to abandon the republican party over the abortion issue, he was for the moment still a candidate for the republican nomination, had delegates pledged to him and intended to attend the party convention in philadelphia. the constitution party already has a presidential candidate, howard phillips, who said yesterday, ''i am prepared to discuss anything with alan keyes, including the possibility of his becoming our candidate for president or vice president, but my present intention is to continue as the presidential nominee.'' mrs. roukema, 70, of ridgewood, has held her seat for 20 years and is strongest in the more populous bergen county portion of the district. her politics reflect the moderate suburban republican outlook of much of northern bergen's commuter population: she is for abortion rights, she resisted some of the harsher aspects of welfare reform, and she sponsored the family and medical leave act that president bush vetoed and president clinton signed. mrs. roukema has won middle-of-the-road scores from congressional watchdog groups on taxation and spending issues, and she reminds her constituents that she is next in line for the chairmanship of the house banking committee, if she wins re-election and the republicans retain control of congress. republican presidential candidate gov george w bush accuses clinton administration of taking sides in 1999 israeli elections and of trying to make israel conform to 'american plans and timetables;' says his own support for israel is not conditional on outcome of peace process; pledges that as president he would begin process of moving us embassy to jerusalem, controversial site israel has chosen as its capital; levels criticisms in speech on middle east at annual policy conference in washington of american israel public affairs committee, pro-israel lobbying group; photo (m) gov. george w. bush today accused the clinton administration of taking sides in last year's israeli election and of trying to make israel conform to american ''plans and timetables'' for peace. the governor said his own support for israel was ''not conditional on the outcome of the peace process.'' mr. bush leveled his criticisms in a speech on the middle east at the annual policy conference of the american israel public affairs committee, a pro-israel lobbying group. his appearance was part of a sustained effort in recent days to address what many consider to be his chief vulnerability as a presidential candidate: his command of foreign affairs. gov. george w. bush today accused the clinton administration of taking sides in last year's israeli election and of trying to make israel conform to american ''plans and timetables'' for peace. the governor said his own support for israel was ''not conditional on the outcome of the peace process.'' mr. bush leveled his criticisms in a speech on the middle east at the annual policy conference of the american israel public affairs committee, a pro-israel lobbying group. his appearance was part of a sustained effort in recent days to address what many consider to be his chief vulnerability as a presidential candidate: his command of foreign affairs. mr. bush, who was repeatedly interrupted by applause, said little on the middle east that he had not said before. once again, he pledged that as president he would ''begin the process of moving the u.s. ambassador to the city israel has chosen as its capital,'' a reference to jerusalem. mr. bush did not elaborate. aides said his comments about a timetable referred to the nine days and nights of tortuous wye river negotiations on maryland's eastern shore, which committed the israelis and palestinians to actions they had promised in previous agreements. the talks restored momentum to the peace process, setting a detailed timetable for israel's withdrawal from part of the west bank in three phases. responding to the accusation of playing favorites in the election, chris lehane, a spokesman for mr. gore, called it ''irresponsible to make such reckless comments concerning such a sensitive part of the world'' and said ''it really does raise a question of his readiness to be a leader in international affairs.'' mr. lehane said, ''al gore's leadership credentials on facilitating the middle east peace process are impeccable while bush is suffering from an antiquated analysis reminiscent of the republican approach of the 1980's.'' in his failed presidential bid in 1988, mr. gore said he would consider moving the embassy to jerusalem, but his aides now say he sees the issue as something that should be worked out in peace negotiations. prime minister barak was supposed to attend the american israel public affairs committee conference today and meet with both mr. bush and mr. gore. but over the weekend he canceled his visit to the united states because of violence in the west bank and south lebanon. mr. bush said he was ''deeply disturbed'' by the reports of the palestinian police opening fire on israeli soldiers last week. mr. bush also said that iran's leaders should be put on notice that ''america will judge them'' by the treatment of 13 jews imprisoned in iran on charges of espionage. little more than a year ago, mr. bush came under criticism for silence on the west's air war in kosovo. and more than a few critics have questioned how capable he would be, as president, on foreign policy issues. in the republican primaries, his main opponent, senator john mccain of arizona, repeatedly said that he himself would not need ''on-the-job training,'' a way of belittling mr. bush's credentials to be commander in chief. mr. bush has openly acknowledged that he is studying international issues, telling reporters that he is reading ''lenin's tomb,'' a book about the soviet union by david remnick, and ''balkan ghosts,'' an account of turmoil in the balkans by robert d. kaplan. in recent days, mr. bush has been raising his profile on international affairs. last week he took positions on pending congressional disputes on financing for kosovo peace-keeping and on trade with china. mr. mbeki met with mr. gore today before attending a state dinner with mr. clinton. introducing mr. bush today, mayer mitchell, a former president of the public affairs committee, told the audience that if they did not know mr. bush well, they did know the foreign policy advisers surrounding him. mr. mitchell named a host of former aides to presidents ronald reagan and george bush. in a separate appearance here today before the national association of realtors, mr. bush called for a crackdown on ''frivolous and junk lawsuits'' and said lawyers who filed multiple ''junk lawsuits'' should be barred from appearing in federal court for three years. in his own words: george w. bush gov. george w. bush accused the clinton administration of taking sides in last year's israeli election and of pressing israel to meet american ''plans and timetables.'' vice president al gore expressed perfunctory support for the china trade agreement, reading a statement in front of a labor group that opposes the china bill. bush-julian s. 84. a retired senior estate partner with the former shea and gould law firm in new york, died tuesday, may 16 in charleston, south carolina. mr. bush was born in new york city, the son of joachim f. bush and isabel rosenthall bush. he was an army veteran of w.w.ii. he was a graduate of columbia law school and an adjunct professor of law in estate planning at columbia, 1958-1981 and formerly adjunct professor of law in taxation at nyu, 1981-1987. he was the author of numerous articles and texts. in his later years, he was a member of the charleston tax council and estate planning council. he was a founder and director of the annual estate planning institute at the medical university of south carolina. he was a member of the charleston symphony orchestra's board of directors and a member of musc's president's advisory council on planned giving. he was a member of the society of american magicians. surviving are his wife, bette bain roe bush; two daughters, dorothy b. seuter of new york and kathryn d. rucker of connecticutt; 4 grandchildren and a great-grandchild. bush-julian s. 84. a retired senior estate partner with the former shea and gould law firm in new york, died tuesday, may 16 in charleston, south carolina. mr. bush was born in new york city, the son of joachim f. bush and isabel rosenthall bush. he was an army veteran of w.w.ii. he was a graduate of columbia law school and an adjunct professor of law in estate planning at columbia, 1958-1981 and formerly adjunct professor of law in taxation at nyu, 1981-1987. he was the author of numerous articles and texts. in his later years, he was a member of the charleston tax council and estate planning council. he was a founder and director of the annual estate planning institute at the medical university of south carolina. he was a member of the charleston symphony orchestra's board of directors and a member of musc's president's advisory council on planned giving. he was a member of the society of american magicians. surviving are his wife, bette bain roe bush; two daughters, dorothy b. seuter of new york and kathryn d. rucker of connecticutt; 4 grandchildren and a great-grandchild. mandrills in lope reserve of gabon are observed living in large groups, some numbering over a thousand, and these groups are made up almost entirely of females and their dependent offspring; males move into the group at beginning of a breeding season and disappear once it is through; their battles for mates are fierce and punishing, and their remarkable coloration may be a way of minimizing violence; scientists are concerned that mandrills will increasingly fall prey to bush meat trade as logging roads open deep forests; photos; map; drawing (m) on a more somber note, the discoveries raise questions about the species' long-term prospects as a free-ranging creature. conservationists are alarmed by how the recent rise in the so-called bush meat trade -- the hunting of wild animals in general and primates in particular -- might affect mandrill populations. because the new studies show that mandrills travel over unusually long distances in spectacularly large numbers, conservationists are concerned that the monkeys will be especially vulnerable to hunters using the ever-expanding network of logging roads to penetrate into forests that were once inaccessible to hunting. some conservation organizations now rank the bush meat trade as the single greatest threat to primates and other wildlife, outstripping in severity even the familiar eco-villain, habitat loss. this and another study in sweden ''suggest that the amount of exercise needed to achieve a cardioprotective benefit is modest,'' said dr. charles m. clark jr. of the richard roudebush veterans affairs medical center in indianapolis. a third estimate, from dr. john quackenbush and colleagues at the institute for genomic research, also based on gene transcripts, puts the number of genes at about 120,000. for the record, dr. green's bet on the number of human genes is 35,000. dr. quackenbush's is 118,259. Mandrills in Lope Reserve of Gabon are observed living in large groups, some numbering over a thousand, and these groups are made up almost entirely of females and their dependent offspring; males move into the group at beginning of a breeding season and disappear once it is through; their battles for mates are fierce and punishing, and their remarkable coloration may be a way of minimizing violence; scientists are concerned that mandrills will increasingly fall prey to bush meat trade as logging roads open deep forests; photos; map; drawing (M) On a more somber note, the discoveries raise questions about the species' long-term prospects as a free-ranging creature. Conservationists are alarmed by how the recent rise in the so-called bush meat trade -- the hunting of wild animals in general and primates in particular -- might affect mandrill populations. Because the new studies show that mandrills travel over unusually long distances in spectacularly large numbers, conservationists are concerned that the monkeys will be especially vulnerable to hunters using the ever-expanding network of logging roads to penetrate into forests that were once inaccessible to hunting. Some conservation organizations now rank the bush meat trade as the single greatest threat to primates and other wildlife, outstripping in severity even the familiar eco-villain, habitat loss. This and another study in Sweden ''suggest that the amount of exercise needed to achieve a cardioprotective benefit is modest,'' said Dr. Charles M. Clark Jr. of the Richard Roudebush Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Indianapolis. A third estimate, from Dr. John Quackenbush and colleagues at the Institute for Genomic Research, also based on gene transcripts, puts the number of genes at about 120,000. For the record, Dr. Green's bet on the number of human genes is 35,000. Dr. Quackenbush's is 118,259. Mandrills in Lope Reserve of Gabon are observed living in large groups, some numbering over a thousand, and these groups are made up almost entirely of females and their dependent offspring; males move into the group at beginning of a breeding season and disappear once it is through; their battles for mates are fierce and punishing, and their remarkable coloration may be a way of minimizing violence; scientists are concerned that mandrills will increasingly fall prey to bush meat trade as logging roads open deep forests; photos; map; drawing (M) On a more somber note, the discoveries raise questions about the species' long-term prospects as a free-ranging creature. Conservationists are alarmed by how the recent rise in the so-called bush meat trade -- the hunting of wild animals in general and primates in particular -- might affect mandrill populations. Because the new studies show that mandrills travel over unusually long distances in spectacularly large numbers, conservationists are concerned that the monkeys will be especially vulnerable to hunters using the ever-expanding network of logging roads to penetrate into forests that were once inaccessible to hunting. Some conservation organizations now rank the bush meat trade as the single greatest threat to primates and other wildlife, outstripping in severity even the familiar eco-villain, habitat loss. This and another study in Sweden ''suggest that the amount of exercise needed to achieve a cardioprotective benefit is modest,'' said Dr. Charles M. Clark Jr. of the Richard Roudebush Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Indianapolis. A third estimate, from Dr. John Quackenbush and colleagues at the Institute for Genomic Research, also based on gene transcripts, puts the number of genes at about 120,000. For the record, Dr. Green's bet on the number of human genes is 35,000. Dr. Quackenbush's is 118,259. Mandrills in Lope Reserve of Gabon are observed living in large groups, some numbering over a thousand, and these groups are made up almost entirely of females and their dependent offspring; males move into the group at beginning of a breeding season and disappear once it is through; their battles for mates are fierce and punishing, and their remarkable coloration may be a way of minimizing violence; scientists are concerned that mandrills will increasingly fall prey to bush meat trade as logging roads open deep forests; photos; map; drawing (M) On a more somber note, the discoveries raise questions about the species' long-term prospects as a free-ranging creature. Conservationists are alarmed by how the recent rise in the so-called bush meat trade -- the hunting of wild animals in general and primates in particular -- might affect mandrill populations. Because the new studies show that mandrills travel over unusually long distances in spectacularly large numbers, conservationists are concerned that the monkeys will be especially vulnerable to hunters using the ever-expanding network of logging roads to penetrate into forests that were once inaccessible to hunting. Some conservation organizations now rank the bush meat trade as the single greatest threat to primates and other wildlife, outstripping in severity even the familiar eco-villain, habitat loss. This and another study in Sweden ''suggest that the amount of exercise needed to achieve a cardioprotective benefit is modest,'' said Dr. Charles M. Clark Jr. of the Richard Roudebush Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Indianapolis. A third estimate, from Dr. John Quackenbush and colleagues at the Institute for Genomic Research, also based on gene transcripts, puts the number of genes at about 120,000. For the record, Dr. Green's bet on the number of human genes is 35,000. Dr. Quackenbush's is 118,259.