 op-ed article by alan s blinder says gov george w bush's plan to divert part of social security payroll taxes into private investment accounts would seriously undermine finances of present social security system, subject americans, especially financially unsophisticated ones, to large additional risks, and abandon noble commitment to social insurance that country made in 1935; says it is cruel illusion to pretend that small individual accounts will enjoy full returns that people see in stock market; says privatization, whether partial or total, would weaken one of precious ties that bind american society together george w. bush is advocating radical change in social security, which he himself calls ''the single most successful government program in american history.'' he would take a part of the payroll tax that now flows to the social security trust fund and divert it to personal savings accounts. george w. bush is advocating radical change in social security, which he himself calls ''the single most successful government program in american history.'' he would take a part of the payroll tax that now flows to the social security trust fund and divert it to personal savings accounts. with the system in need of more revenue, not less, diverting part of the payroll tax into private accounts, as mr. bush proposes, appears irresponsible, unless, of course, you make up the difference by cutting benefits. without such cuts, privatization would dig the financing hole even deeper, which is why thoughtful privatization proposals generally include significant tax increases to make good on promises that have already been made. but mr. bush has not proposed any. this is no minor omission. diverting 2 percentage points of the payroll tax into individual accounts would drain trillions of dollars from social security over the next quarter-century. the bush plan not only would imperil social security's finances, but would add new elements of cost and risk to the retirement security of millions of americans. privatization is superficially attractive for two main reasons: the higher returns that can presumably be earned, say, in the stock market, and the virtues of individual choice. that's all well and good for financially sophisticated americans, who happen (by no coincidence) also to enjoy every other advantage in our society, and who, by the way, do not rely heavily on social security for their retirement income. but what about the less fortunate citizens, the ones who will need to live on their social security checks but who may not know the difference between a stock and a bond? finally, let's remember the central idea behind the social security system: to provide social insurance. both words matter. high-wage earners like me would undoubtedly be better off under the bush proposal, and even better off under full privatization. after all, universal social insurance forces us to remain in the same pool with, and partially subsidize, those who are less fortunate. social security's benefit formula offers a better rate of return to lower-wage individuals. alan s. blinder, a professor of economics at princeton and visiting fellow at the brookings institution, is an adviser to the gore campaign. tami stronach dance. a dancer with neta pulvermacher, tami stronach will present her own choreography, performed by dancers known for their work with stephen petronio, bebe miller, urban bush women and doug varone. ms. stronach will present ''love particles'' and the intriguing-sounding ''two inch pedestal,'' a solo about the impossibility of becoming the ideal girl. sharing the program will be the guest troupes the flying machine and the underfoot dance company. tonight and tomorrow night at 8. washington square methodist church, 133 west fourth street, greenwich village; (718) 384-1377. tickets: $12; $10 for students and the elderly (dunning). tami stronach dance. a dancer with neta pulvermacher, tami stronach will present her own choreography, performed by dancers known for their work with stephen petronio, bebe miller, urban bush women and doug varone. ms. stronach will present ''love particles'' and the intriguing-sounding ''two inch pedestal,'' a solo about the impossibility of becoming the ideal girl. sharing the program will be the guest troupes the flying machine and the underfoot dance company. tonight and tomorrow night at 8. washington square methodist church, 133 west fourth street, greenwich village; (718) 384-1377. tickets: $12; $10 for students and the elderly (dunning). letter from mary fenzel objects to effort, in may 19 profile, to categorize tipper gore as traditional or elusive; says she is woman empowered with individuality, passion and loyalty a may 19 front-page article portrays tipper gore as someone who seeks privacy. yet she is also said to be a woman who humbly joins with other mothers against gun violence, seeks out the homeless at night and speaks to parents of gays (and, indeed, all parents) about the need for unconditional love. is mrs. gore a woman who retreats from public scrutiny or, in fact, a woman who embodies the struggles so many women face today: balancing work, promoting social justice and, most important, caring for their families? a may 19 front-page article portrays tipper gore as someone who seeks privacy. yet she is also said to be a woman who humbly joins with other mothers against gun violence, seeks out the homeless at night and speaks to parents of gays (and, indeed, all parents) about the need for unconditional love. is mrs. gore a woman who retreats from public scrutiny or, in fact, a woman who embodies the struggles so many women face today: balancing work, promoting social justice and, most important, caring for their families? must we categorize mrs. gore as traditional or elusive, or can we appreciate her as a woman empowered with individuality, passion and loyalty? third metrotech garden festival, metrotech commons, myrtle avenue between jay street and flatbush avenue extension,  adjacent to the new york marriott brooklyn, downtown brooklyn. features a 1,000-square-foot chess garden in which games will be held. also, exhibits presented by the brooklyn botanic garden, the brooklyn children's museum and barnes & noble. hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily through next friday. information: (718) 488-8200. correction of may 25 article on vice pres al gore's position on social security, which misstated one element of his personal finances an article yesterday about vice president al gore's position on social security misstated one element of his personal finances. mr. gore receives no income from investments in the stock market. although his financial disclosure form lists dividend income, the stock is held in trust for his mother, and the income goes only to her. an article yesterday about vice president al gore's position on social security misstated one element of his personal finances. mr. gore receives no income from investments in the stock market. although his financial disclosure form lists dividend income, the stock is held in trust for his mother, and the income goes only to her. letter from joan wile, who participated in million mom march, disputes national rifle assn's wayne lapierre's description of march as 'gore campaign rally'; says none of people she went with had political agenda wayne lapierre, the executive vice president of the national rifle association, discounted the million mom march when he said, ''it wasn't a grass-roots rally but a gore campaign rally, scripted and coached by the white house'' (news article, may 21). wayne lapierre, the executive vice president of the national rifle association, discounted the million mom march when he said, ''it wasn't a grass-roots rally but a gore campaign rally, scripted and coached by the white house'' (news article, may 21). justice dept says george a stamboulidis, respected prosecutor from long island who is experienced in organized crime and public corruption cases, will lead prosecution of wen ho lee, scientist accused of illegally downloading highly sensitive nuclear weapons secrets at los alamos national laboratory, where he worked; stamboulidis will take over from bob gorence, assistant us attorney in albuquerque, where lee will be tried; justice dept refuses to say why they are taking somewhat unusual step of switching lead prosecutor (m) mr. stamboulidis, who successfully prosecuted a number of organized crime figures in the genovese, colombo and luchese crime families, will take over from bob gorence, an assistant united states attorney in albuquerque, where the scientist, wen ho lee, will be tried. mr. stamboulidis, who successfully prosecuted a number of organized crime figures in the genovese, colombo and luchese crime families, will take over from bob gorence, an assistant united states attorney in albuquerque, where the scientist, wen ho lee, will be tried. officials said several weeks ago that mr. gorence was being replaced as the lead prosecutor, but they have not said why. patricia chavez, a spokesman for the united states attorney's office in albuquerque, said only that mr. gorence would remain one of the prosecutors on the case. mr. gorence could not be reached for comment today. gov george w bush meets with colin l powell, retired general, at governor's mansion in austin, tex; powell again says he would not be interested in being bush's running mate, but he does not rule out taking cabinet post; their meeting is held day after religious conservative, james c dobson, calls on bush to choose running mate opposed to abortion; bush calls himself 'pretty independent thinker' whose main criterion for vice-presidential nominee is ability to assume presidency; refuses to say if position on abortion will be litmus test for running mate; bush's position is that republican platform's plank against abortion should remain intact; powell wants anti-abortion plank removed; photo (m) faced with a new warning by a prominent religious conservative against selecting a running mate who supports a right to abortion, gov. george w. bush today called himself ''a pretty independent thinker'' whose main criterion for a vice-presidential nominee was an ability to assume the presidency. mr. bush spoke of his vice-presidential search as he stood beside colin l. powell, the retired general and republican dream candidate who refuses to seek elective office. general powell, prompted by reporters' questions, repeated his wish to see the anti-abortion plank removed from the republican platform. and he once again said he would not be interested in being mr. bush's running mate. faced with a new warning by a prominent religious conservative against selecting a running mate who supports a right to abortion, gov. george w. bush today called himself ''a pretty independent thinker'' whose main criterion for a vice-presidential nominee was an ability to assume the presidency. mr. bush spoke of his vice-presidential search as he stood beside colin l. powell, the retired general and republican dream candidate who refuses to seek elective office. general powell, prompted by reporters' questions, repeated his wish to see the anti-abortion plank removed from the republican platform. and he once again said he would not be interested in being mr. bush's running mate. the day's event had not been devised for talk of abortion politics. in the garden of the governor's mansion, mr. bush and general powell  signed an agreement in which texas and america's promise, the general's volunteer group to help the nation's youth, vowed to work together. but the subsequent news conference quickly turned to the jousting inside the republican party over mr. bush's choice of a running mate, just a day after the religious conservative james c. dobson told reporters that mr. bush ''sounds a whole lot more conservative when he is talking to conservatives and a whole lot more moderate when he is talking to moderates.'' dr. dobson accused mr. bush of sacrificing the party's core principles and called on him to choose a running mate opposed to abortion. asked his response, mr. bush gave neither a nod to dr. dobson's concerns nor a hint where his running mate would stand on abortion. ''i appreciate advice,'' the governor said. ''i'm getting it from all corners. but i'm a pretty independent thinker.'' and, he said, his political message is always consistent. ''it's basically this: we're going to trust people, not government,'' he said. pressed several times on whether he was listening to either conservatives or abortion-rights republicans about the choice of a vice-presidential nominee, mr. bush listed some of his criteria for selecting a running mate. mr. bush repeated his position that the republican platform's plank against abortion should remain intact. general powell, asked whether he agreed, said: ''i would work to remove it. but good friends can disagree on issues, so i don't see that there is a big fight over that.'' mr. bush, who has been positioning himself close to the political center, faces a major decision on whether he can afford to select a running mate, like gov. tom ridge of pennsylvania, who backs abortion rights.  in a new york times/cbs news survey this month, 3 of every 10 republican voters polled said they would be less likely to support mr. bush if he picked a running mate who backed a right to abortion. as reporters tried and failed several times to draw mr. bush out on how much he was weighing abortion in his choice of a running mate, he seemed to grow impatient. but mr. bush did say, in an interview with the associated press, that he was not considering either general powell or senator john mccain, taking them at their word that they did not want the job. normalizing trade with china is victory for clinton administration, but also for house republican leadership, which closed ranks behind bill and lobbied hard to win votes of reluctant party members; passage of measure insures republicans' corporate benefactors full benefit from market-opening accord that will slash chinese tariffs on wide range of farm and industrial products, and will remove some barriers to american service providers; detailed account of how rep tom delay, republican whip, lined up outside help, from gov george w bush and others, to win votes of 164 republicans, enough to pass bill (m) mr. delay, the republican whip, had lined up lots of help. gov. george w. bush of texas was recruited to cajole several wavering republicans. so was gen. colin l. powell. dozens of pro-trade lobbyists and corporate chieftains fanned out on capitol hill to buttonhole the last dozen or so undeclared members for what both camps predicted would be a nail-biter. mr. delay, the republican whip, had lined up lots of help. gov. george w. bush of texas was recruited to cajole several wavering republicans. so was gen. colin l. powell. dozens of pro-trade lobbyists and corporate chieftains fanned out on capitol hill to buttonhole the last dozen or so undeclared members for what both camps predicted would be a nail-biter. finally, a few members who were leaning toward voting yes needed a touch of outside help to reach their decision. governor bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, spoke to a handful of republicans, including ernie fletcher of kentucky, who was impressed by mr. bush's commitment to improving human rights in china. ''i've been counting votes for a long, long time and never in my life have i seen that many undecideds break in favor of a position,'' said nick calio, a bill supporter who was president bush's top lobbyist on capitol hill. editorial welcomes debate between gov george w bush and vice pres al gore on how best to reduce nuclear arsenal and diminish threat of accidential or intentional nuclear conflict; says placing greater emphasis on defensive systems, as bush proposes, is alluring, but there are disabling problems with making antimissile shield centerpiece of nuclear strategy; says us should seek to develop limited defensive system, but it must also work with russia to reopen abm treaty rather than withdrawing from it it seems fitting that the first presidential campaign of the new century should confront the most dangerous military legacy of the last century, nuclear arms. gov. george w. bush and vice president al gore initiated an important and healthy debate in recent days about how best to reduce nuclear arsenals and diminish the threat of an accidental or intentional nuclear conflict. america's security will be best protected if the next president moves boldly to cut nuclear arms without suddenly overturning the carefully calibrated balance between offensive and defensive weapons that has long been central to preserving the peace. mr. bush, like ronald reagan in the 1980's, is impatient with the balance. the impulse is understandable. the primary deterrent to war is the chilling notion of mutual assured destruction, which requires washington and moscow to maintain sufficient nuclear firepower to annihilate one another. that balance of terror has always been unsettling and should be supplanted by a less threatening calculus. placing a greater emphasis on defensive systems, as mr. bush proposes, is alluring. it seems fitting that the first presidential campaign of the new century should confront the most dangerous military legacy of the last century, nuclear arms. gov. george w. bush and vice president al gore initiated an important and healthy debate in recent days about how best to reduce nuclear arsenals and diminish the threat of an accidental or intentional nuclear conflict. america's security will be best protected if the next president moves boldly to cut nuclear arms without suddenly overturning the carefully calibrated balance between offensive and defensive weapons that has long been central to preserving the peace. mr. bush, like ronald reagan in the 1980's, is impatient with the balance. the impulse is understandable. the primary deterrent to war is the chilling notion of mutual assured destruction, which requires washington and moscow to maintain sufficient nuclear firepower to annihilate one another. that balance of terror has always been unsettling and should be supplanted by a less threatening calculus. placing a greater emphasis on defensive systems, as mr. bush proposes, is alluring. but there are disabling problems with mr. bush's desire to make an antimissile shield a centerpiece of his nuclear strategy. for one thing, the technology to destroy even a handful of incoming warheads in outer space remains elusive. intercepting just one warhead has proved difficult in recent tests. for another, an abrupt shift to defensive strategies would invite moscow to increase its nuclear arsenal to ensure that it could overwhelm even a limited american antimissile system. but that is just the risk that mr. bush takes by emphasizing the immediate development of a robust antimissile defense. apart from questions of cost and technology -- the united states has already wasted billions of dollars chasing this goal -- mr. bush's approach will tempt washington to break out of the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty. the pact limits the defensive systems that washington and moscow can construct. an american breakout would unravel the arms control work of six presidents, and encourage china to join a new arms race to overcome the shield. even mr. bush's own arms reduction proposals would be threatened. many of the ideas he presented this week were constructive and creative. mr. bush made clear his commitment to seek deeper cuts than those provided under the last arms reduction treaty. the 1993 agreement requires washington and moscow to slash the number of long-range warheads from roughly 6,000 on each side to half that count. mr. bush seemed comfortable with eventually leaving each country with 2,000 to 2,500 long-range weapons. drawing on the positive example his father set as president, mr. bush also said he would consider eliminating some american missiles and lowering the alert status of others on his own to encourage moscow to respond in kind. gov george w bush's proposal to consider unilateral reductions in american nuclear arsenal may foretell end of traditional theories of arms control (news analysis); bush is giving new voice to idea of large cuts in offensive weapons, coupled with construction of missile defenses; one of bush's advisers is george p shultz, who as secretary of state in reagan administration was skeptic about reagan's vision of space-based umbrella to shield us from nuclear warheads; shultz says his thinking has evolved on such defenses because of rapid advance of technology (m) gov. george w. bush's proposal this week to consider unilateral reductions in the american nuclear arsenal was a break with decades of strategic doctrine, a break that may foretell the end of traditional theories of arms control. in mr. bush's vision, still lacking in many details, the threat of global annihilation -- or ''mutual assured destruction'' -- would no longer govern relations between the united states and other powers. the size of the american nuclear arsenal would no longer depend on the number of warheads that russia possesses, nor be set in lengthy and painstaking arms control negotiations. gov. george w. bush's proposal this week to consider unilateral reductions in the american nuclear arsenal was a break with decades of strategic doctrine, a break that may foretell the end of traditional theories of arms control. in mr. bush's vision, still lacking in many details, the threat of global annihilation -- or ''mutual assured destruction'' -- would no longer govern relations between the united states and other powers. the size of the american nuclear arsenal would no longer depend on the number of warheads that russia possesses, nor be set in lengthy and painstaking arms control negotiations. years later, arms control is suddenly back at center stage in a presidential campaign that was expected to focus on domestic policy. and some of those same advisers who pushed mr. reagan away from his radical views on arms control are now advising governor bush, the presumptive republican nominee, as he gives new voice to the idea of large cuts in offensive weapons, coupled with construction of missile defenses, and places it squarely on the current political agenda. mr. bush and his advisers argue that it is long past time for a radical reassessment of nuclear armaments. the idea of holding populations hostage to annihilation is worse than immoral, they say; it is irrelevant. they complain that president clinton has wasted much of the decade since the end of the cold war by clinging to the orthodoxy of using the specter of ''mutual assured destruction'' to deter any nuclear power from contemplating a first strike. ''it's way past time for some fresh thinking about the structure of military capability in light of the kind of world we now live in,'' said george p. shultz, secretary of state in the reagan administration and one of mr. bush's foreign policy advisers. ''that really hasn't been done.'' mr. shultz, who was well known as a skeptic about mr. reagan's vision of a space-based umbrella to shield the united states from nuclear warheads, said his thinking has evolved on such defenses because of the rapid advance of technology. he said mr. bush knows that current technology cannot produce an impermeable nuclear shield any time soon. but, he added, ''it's not too much to say there is a reasonable prospect to interpose a thin layer of defense.'' ''bush is talking about going down to numbers that are lower than the military is currently willing to go,'' mr. blechman said. what's more, mr. bush is discussing the possibility of making such reductions unilaterally, rather than through years of negotiations with russia or china over accuracy, throw-weights, basing modes, build-downs and other esoterica. mr. bush said he envisions a sweeping review of strategic needs by the pentagon that will help establish the optimal size of the nuclear force. he will then challenge russia to match american reductions in weaponry. his chief foreign policy adviser, condoleezza rice, calls these ''reciprocal unilateral measures'' and describes them as a simpler and less time-consuming way to do arms control than the interminable talks that have dominated arms control efforts with moscow. as another bush adviser put it: ''the governor said he was going to figure out what we need, reduce to that level, and encourage the russians to do the same. we're not going to build stuff we don't need just because russians have stuff they don't need.'' vice president al gore had hoped that such questions would not become central to the presidential campaign this year. he and other administration officials felt they had neutralized much of the republican fervor for a robust missile shield by moving toward a decision this year on a limited system of land-based national missile defense. but governor bush portrayed the administration's approach as timid. he proposed a broader missile shield to appeal to conservatives and deeper weapons cuts than the administration has been willing to entertain. mr. bush and his advisers argued this week that united states policy has not kept pace with any of these developments. ''while deterrence remains the first line of defense against nuclear attack, the standoff of the cold war was born of a different time,'' mr. bush said in a speech tuesday at the national press club. ''yet almost a decade after the end of the cold war, our nuclear policy still resides in that already distant past.'' both countries argue that the old system of deterrence that mr. bush derides as outdated is still the most reliable method of keeping the nuclear peace. chinese officials have said they might have to accelerate their own nuclear program if the americans build an antimissile shield. mr. gore quickly issued a statement rejecting mr. bush's ideas as risky and irresponsible. he said mr. bush wanted to resurrect the discredited star wars program of the reagan era and flaunt american military superiority over russia, china and every other nation. and he chastised governor bush for opposing the comprehensive test ban treaty, which was defeated in the senate last fall on a largely party-line vote. mr. gore's response drew a rebuke from mr. bush's advisers. brent scowcroft, the national security adviser to president george bush and a retired air force general, said construction of missile defenses should not be seen as a threat to the nuclear forces of russia and china nor as an incentive for them to beef up their arsenals. in a statement today, senator joseph r. biden jr., the senior democrat on the foreign relations committee, praised mr. bush's ideas -- up to a point. he applauded his intention to undertake a thorough review of america's nuclear posture and endorsed his plan to take weapons off high-alert status. he agreed that the size of the nuclear arsenal could safely be reduced. but mr. biden also said that mr. bush held an unrealistic view of the feasibility and cost of missile defenses and that a radical revision of decades of deterrence unnerve allies and adversaries alike. the senator urged mr. bush and mr. gore to remove the question from the political debate and to allow the next president to study the matter outside of the electoral arena. bush daughters' day -- ''i'll have a tear in my eye,'' gov. george w. bush said yesterday in austin, tex., as he prepared to watch his twin daughters, jenna and barbara, graduate from stephen f. austin high school and head off for college. ''they mean more to us than anything in life,'' he went on. ''today is a big day.'' then, making clear that he wanted to continue the family's  effort to shield the teenagers as much as possible from the spotlight of public life, he told reporters, ''you all aren't invited, by the way.'' vice pres al gore and his campaign staff meet in nashville, tenn, with more than 70 democratic officials from 34 states, in campaign's effort to coordinate with its state emissaries; gore has been lagging gov george w bush in polls, but many leave meeting with impression that gore will prevail in november; photo (m) gov. george w. bush may be a fun date, but he's not the kind of guy you want to settle down with. so says the chairwoman of the texas democratic party, molly beth malcolm, one of more than 70 democratic officials from 34 states who met here today with vice president al gore and his senior campaign staff. although mr. gore has been lagging mr. bush in the public opinion polls, the meeting was not an emergency session but a long-planned chance for the campaign to coordinate with its state emissaries. many left the impression that they were not worried about an election more than five months away, although they were trying to prepare for it. gov. george w. bush may be a fun date, but he's not the kind of guy you want to settle down with. so says the chairwoman of the texas democratic party, molly beth malcolm, one of more than 70 democratic officials from 34 states who met here today with vice president al gore and his senior campaign staff. although mr. gore has been lagging mr. bush in the public opinion polls, the meeting was not an emergency session but a long-planned chance for the campaign to coordinate with its state emissaries. many left the impression that they were not worried about an election more than five months away, although they were trying to prepare for it. the state officials said they recognized that voters seemed to like mr. bush's personality more than mr. gore's, but they suggested that the more voters saw of mr. bush, the less they would like him. later, for the first time in quite a few weeks, mr. gore referred to his vanquished democratic primary foe, former senator bill bradley, with some graciousness, a hint that the icy relationship between them might be beginning to thaw. ''one of our greatest challenges, as bill bradley so eloquently said during the primaries, is that we need to bring our people together,'' mr. gore said at a low-key fund-raising reception tonight in calling for anti-hate-crime legislation. george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- memphis and cordova, tenn., and newburgh, n.y. george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- memphis and cordova, tenn., and newburgh, n.y. for years, as diamonds from african war zones fueled conflict, african diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons. for years, as diamonds from african war zones fueled conflict, african diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons. trying to fill it, mr. buchanan has wooed delegates, placed supporters in reform state leadership positions and offered his america-first, socially conservative views as a credible  alternative to the major party candidates, gov. george w. bush of texas and vice president al gore. THIRD METROTECH GARDEN FESTIVAL, Metrotech Commons, Myrtle Avenue between Jay Street and Flatbush Avenue Extension,  adjacent to the New York Marriott Brooklyn, downtown Brooklyn. Features a 1,000-square-foot chess garden in which games will be held. Also, exhibits presented by the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Brooklyn Children's Museum and Barnes & Noble. Hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily through next Friday. Information: (718) 488-8200. For years, as diamonds from African war zones fueled conflict, African diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons. For years, as diamonds from African war zones fueled conflict, African diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons. THIRD METROTECH GARDEN FESTIVAL, Metrotech Commons, Myrtle Avenue between Jay Street and Flatbush Avenue Extension,  adjacent to the New York Marriott Brooklyn, downtown Brooklyn. Features a 1,000-square-foot chess garden in which games will be held. Also, exhibits presented by the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Brooklyn Children's Museum and Barnes & Noble. Hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily through next Friday. Information: (718) 488-8200. For years, as diamonds from African war zones fueled conflict, African diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons. For years, as diamonds from African war zones fueled conflict, African diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons. THIRD METROTECH GARDEN FESTIVAL, Metrotech Commons, Myrtle Avenue between Jay Street and Flatbush Avenue Extension,  adjacent to the New York Marriott Brooklyn, downtown Brooklyn. Features a 1,000-square-foot chess garden in which games will be held. Also, exhibits presented by the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Brooklyn Children's Museum and Barnes & Noble. Hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily through next Friday. Information: (718) 488-8200. For years, as diamonds from African war zones fueled conflict, African diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons. For years, as diamonds from African war zones fueled conflict, African diamond-trading has been associated with secretive deals between warlords in the bush and unscrupulous buyers who trade gems for weapons.