 not quite up to the level of the rest of the meal was gored gored, a generous bowl of cubed beef marinated in red wine and rosemary, then sauteed in nitir kibe (clarified butter), with onion, garlic, chili pepper and herbs. the meat, despite all the cooking, was tough and the sauce oily. even the injera couldn't neutralize it. article on the record: capital punishment in texas examines administration of death penalty in texas, where 127 people have been executed during governorship of presidential aspirant george w bush; bush says he is confident that all were guilty and had full access to courts; texas has under bush executed more people than any other state; photos; graph; officials who administer system are not so sanguine, even though they support bush and believe in death penalty; pardons board member paddy lann burwell voices concern about fairness and executing innocent people, citing several cases in which prosecutors seemed more concerned with scoring victories than with justice; board members tom moss and cynthia tauss mention questions about guilt of troy farris, who was executed for killing police officer; judge charles baird does not share bush's certainty that 'very fallible' system works 'flawlessly'; new york times examination of some cases reviewed, with questions raised about possible innocence and how system works (l) gov. george w. bush is certain that the 127 people who have been executed in texas during his tenure were all guilty. ''i'm confident that every person that has been put to death in texas, under my watch, has been guilty of the crime charged, and has had full access to the courts,'' mr. bush said on the nbc news program ''meet the press'' in february. gov. george w. bush is certain that the 127 people who have been executed in texas during his tenure were all guilty. ''i'm confident that every person that has been put to death in texas, under my watch, has been guilty of the crime charged, and has had full access to the courts,'' mr. bush said on the nbc news program ''meet the press'' in february. but here in texas, which under mr. bush has executed more people than any other state, some of the officials who administer the death penalty, reviewing the case records, considering inmates' appeals and weighing final pleas for clemency, are not so sanguine. these officials, who support mr. bush's presidential candidacy and believe in the death penalty, said in interviews that they believed texas ran the risk of executing an innocent person. ''i believe in the death penalty and i don't want to do anything that will cause george bush to lose the election,'' said paddy lann burwell, a retired exxon manager who was appointed by the governor two years ago to the texas board of pardons and paroles, which reviews all clemency requests in capital cases and makes recommendations to the governor. still, in an interview at his cattle ranch outside westhof, south of austin, mr. burwell voiced concerns about the fairness of the state's judicial system, particularly several cases in which he said prosecutors seemed more concerned with scoring victories, in the form of capital convictions, than with justice. cynthia tauss, who has studied law, is also on the board. she said she ''cried all day'' after texas executed mr. farris. ''i wasn't sure he should have been given the death penalty,'' she said. ''that's why i voted to commute.'' a majority of the 18-member board would have to have voted for clemency in order to make a recommendation of it to mr. bush. charles baird, a judge on the texas court of criminal appeals until 1998, was in washington this week to announce the formation of a national committee to prevent wrongful executions. asked whether he agreed with mr. bush that no one had been wrongfully executed under his watch, mr. baird said:  ''everyone in texas hopes and prays that that's the case. i do not share his view.'' for such certainty to exist, he added, ''you have to take the position that this very fallible system has worked flawlessly.'' but a close look by the new york times at a half dozen executions carried out during governor bush's tenure -- including interviews with jurors, prosecutors, judges, witnesses and co-defendants still on death row -- makes clear that a legal and judicial system rife with these conditions creates, at the very least, the risk of an innocent person being sent to death row. although most of the officials interviewed said they believed that the executed men were guilty, they questioned aspects of the legal system that sent them to their deaths. across the country there have been 87 exonerations in the last 27 years, more than a third of them in the last seven years. these cases have prompted a growing national concern over executions. in january, gov. george ryan of illinois, a republican who supports the death penalty, announced a moratorium on executions while a thorough review is conducted of the state's criminal justice system. mr. ryan, who is mr. bush's state campaign chairman, described his state's system, where 13 death row inmates have been exonerated since 1987, 11 of them since 1994, as ''fraught with error.'' in the last year, 13 states have had bills pending that would have halted executions. asked on ''meet the press'' if he would consider following the lead of governor ryan, mr. bush said he would not. asked why he thought mr. ryan had taken the action, mr. bush answered: ''maybe they've had some problems in their courts. maybe they've had some faulty judgments.'' governor bush declined an interview request for this article. his top criminal justice policy adviser, johnny sutton, answered questions about mr. bush's criminal justice record and some specific capital cases in a lengthy telephone interview. then, in an unusual move, seven members of the state parole board voted for clemency, but 10 opposed it and one abstained. mr. farris was executed in january 1999. during mr. bush's tenure, the parole board has granted clemency to only one death row inmate, according to the board's statistics; as of the end of april, it had rejected 68 clemency petitions. since george w. bush took office in 1995, texas has put to death more than twice as many people as the next state, virginia, with 52, and more than all the executions put together in the next four states -- missouri with 31, oklahoma with 21, south carolina with 20 and arizona with 18. texas has 12 executions scheduled for may and june. the state has 462 people on death row, second only to california, with 561 death row inmates (california, in contrast, has executed 8 people). ann w. richards, the liberal democratic governor who preceded mr. bush, presided over the executions of a then-record 50 death row inmates. mr. bush has been praised by victims' rights groups. ''the families of victims want resolution,'' said dianne clements, the president of one group in houston, justice for all. her 13-year-old son zachary was killed nine years ago in an accidental shooting. last year, governor bush vetoed a modest indigent defense bill that its backers said would have improved the quality of representation in criminal cases. it would have given counties the authority to set up public defender offices, which only a handful now have, and curbed the power of judges to appoint their friends and campaign contributors to represent indigents. for a small-town practitioner, these appointments can be a lucrative source of income; to remain in the good graces of the judges who dole them out, some lawyers feel bound to move cases quickly. the bill would also have required that a lawyer be appointed within 20 days after a person is arraigned. there is no limit now. explaining his veto at the time, mr. bush said, among other things, that the bill would not improve legal counsel for the poor. asked about the bill on ''meet the press,'' mr. bush said he could not remember it, though he insisted that he was ''for public defenders.'' this emphasis on speed hurt jerry lee hogue. although there was strong evidence, including two eyewitnesses, that he had committed the arson-murder for which he was convicted, on the eve of his scheduled execution nearly 20 years later a law enforcement official had gnawing doubts. the official, joseph stewart, an arson investigator in wichita falls, arrested a man for a different arson who it turned out had been at the arson for which mr. hogue had been convicted. the arsons seemed disturbingly similar, mr. stewart said in an interview, and he called governor bush's office several times, pleading for a reprieve of 30 days in order to pursue the new evidence. ''i'm not a defense lawyer, i'm a texas peace officer,'' said mr. stewart, a death penalty supporter who has voted for mr. bush and has been in law enforcement since he was 21. for this reason he thought governor bush would listen to him. he was wrong. ''the board would not have to sacrifice its conservative ideology to carry out its duties in a more fair and accurate fashion,'' the judge ruled. the judge said it was up to the texas legislature to make any changes. governor bush said he saw no need for a change. perhaps because the rate of clemency is so low, lawyers may not always put their full energies into applying for it, said a former lawyer in the governor's general counsel office from 1989 to 1998, jim sallans, who reviewed hundreds of clemency petitions in capital cases. he said he ''supports the way governor bush handles clemency in capital cases,'' and he said he had no doubt that all those executed under the governor were guilty. governor bush, who has never witnessed an execution, weighs all clemency petitions, as well as all other cases set for execution, sometimes several days, or more, before an  execution, sometimes the morning of the lethal injection. his powers to act are limited by the recommendations of the parole board, except that he may grant a 30-day reprieve on his own. he has never done so. correction:  june 17, 2000, saturday  an article on may 14 about executions in texas during the tenure of gov. george w. bush misstated the year in which a federal judge in austin ruled that the texas pardons and paroles board barely met minimal procedural safeguards required by the united states constitution. it was 1998, not 1988. an article on may 14 about executions in texas during the tenure of gov. george w. bush misstated the year in which a federal judge in austin ruled that the texas pardons and paroles board barely met minimal procedural safeguards required by the united states constitution. it was 1998, not 1988. 380 flatbush avenue extension Not quite up to the level of the rest of the meal was gored gored, a generous bowl of cubed beef marinated in red wine and rosemary, then sauteed in nitir kibe (clarified butter), with onion, garlic, chili pepper and herbs. The meat, despite all the cooking, was tough and the sauce oily. Even the injera couldn't neutralize it. 380 Flatbush Avenue Extension Not quite up to the level of the rest of the meal was gored gored, a generous bowl of cubed beef marinated in red wine and rosemary, then sauteed in nitir kibe (clarified butter), with onion, garlic, chili pepper and herbs. The meat, despite all the cooking, was tough and the sauce oily. Even the injera couldn't neutralize it. 380 Flatbush Avenue Extension Not quite up to the level of the rest of the meal was gored gored, a generous bowl of cubed beef marinated in red wine and rosemary, then sauteed in nitir kibe (clarified butter), with onion, garlic, chili pepper and herbs. The meat, despite all the cooking, was tough and the sauce oily. Even the injera couldn't neutralize it. 380 Flatbush Avenue Extension