 u.s. replacing prosecutor  the justice department has decided to replace bob gorence as the top prosecutor in the case against wen ho lee, a scientist charged with mishandling nuclear weapon secrets at the los alamos national laboratory. no explanation was given. a bosnian by any other name -- although aides to gov. george w. bush have dismissed as unimportant the several times he has mangled the proper terms for people of various nationalities, they were elated by a report yesterday that his adversary, vice president al gore, had committed a similar error. karen p. hughes, mr. bush's communications director, gleefully broadcast the bulletin that mr. gore had referred to bosnians as bosniaks. ''it can happen to the best of us,'' ms. hughes said, ''as i hope the vice president will concede.'' yes, but. as it turns out, bosniak is an apparently acceptable alternative, listed in some dictionaries, so mr. gore spoke correctly. and ms. hughes got no more mileage out of the incident than she had with a disapproving recitation on tuesday night of jewish jokes that the vice president had publicly told. where was the outrage? not among the bush press corps, whose members were too busy laughing to be on political-correctness patrol. a bosnian by any other name -- although aides to gov. george w. bush have dismissed as unimportant the several times he has mangled the proper terms for people of various nationalities, they were elated by a report yesterday that his adversary, vice president al gore, had committed a similar error. karen p. hughes, mr. bush's communications director, gleefully broadcast the bulletin that mr. gore had referred to bosnians as bosniaks. ''it can happen to the best of us,'' ms. hughes said, ''as i hope the vice president will concede.'' yes, but. as it turns out, bosniak is an apparently acceptable alternative, listed in some dictionaries, so mr. gore spoke correctly. and ms. hughes got no more mileage out of the incident than she had with a disapproving recitation on tuesday night of jewish jokes that the vice president had publicly told. where was the outrage? not among the bush press corps, whose members were too busy laughing to be on political-correctness patrol. bush ahead in new poll -- the latest national presidential preference poll shows mr. bush taking a substantial eight-point lead over mr. gore, 51 percent to 43 percent. the poll, published yesterday in the los angeles times, surveyed 1,211 registered voters, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. it was conducted from may 4 to 7, just about the same time that a poll done for the pew research center for the people and the press found mr. bush barely edging mr. gore, 46 percent to 45 percent. that poll, conducted may 2 to 6 and covering 940 registered voters, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. meanwhile, in polls conducted last week in six of the largest and most politically important states by the american research group of manchester, n.h., mr. bush leads mr. gore by 7 percentage points in florida, 47 points in texas and 3 points in pennsylvania, whereas mr. gore leads by 14 points in california and 20 in new york. in illinois, there is a tie. over all, according to the latest available state polls, mr. bush is ahead in 17 states (good for 183 of the required 270 electoral votes), and mr. gore leads in 10 states (good for 146 electoral votes). a message from women -- mr. gore, who polls indicate is having difficulty maintaining the traditional democratic advantage with women, has been put on notice by two dozen women's organizations that he needs to work harder to win women's political allegiance. in an hourlong session on tuesday in the old executive office building with about 40 leaders of the women's groups, the vice president was told he needed a better media strategy to convey his positions on issues like social security, paycheck fairness, domestic violence and abortion. ''the message isn't getting out to women,'' kim gandy, executive vice president of the national organization for women, said in an interview after the meeting. nancy zirkin, a spokeswoman for the american association of university women, said the meeting was requested four months ago, on a nonpartisan basis, so the women could hold a general discussion with mr. gore about their concerns. she said the request was not prompted by the vice president's lag in the polls or by growing polling evidence that the democratic candidate's edge with women was beginning to erode. mr. gore, who was accompanied at the meeting by donna brazile, his campaign manager; donna e. shalala, the secretary of health and human services, and alexis m. herman, the secretary of labor, agreed to additional meetings. ms. brazile suggested after the meeting that the women's groups could help him get out his message. ''but we're not in any trouble with women voters,'' she insisted. justice dept will send new prosecutor to take control of sensitive criminal case against wen ho lee, scientist charged with mishandling nuclear weapon secrets at los alamos national laboratory; patricia chavez, spokesman for united states attorney's office in albuquerque, says bob gorence, locally based assistant us attorney who had been in charge, will remain 'key member' of team; gorence refuses to comment; it is unclear whether he would remain with us attorney's office at this point (m) patricia chavez, a spokesman for the united states attorney's office in albuquerque, where the case is being handled, said the department had decided to send from washington a prosecutor to take control of the case from bob gorence, the locally based assistant united states attorney who had been in charge. patricia chavez, a spokesman for the united states attorney's office in albuquerque, where the case is being handled, said the department had decided to send from washington a prosecutor to take control of the case from bob gorence, the locally based assistant united states attorney who had been in charge. ms. chavez said mr. gorence, an experienced prosecutor who has pursued the case aggressively from its start last year, would remain ''a key member of the team'' handling the case against wen ho lee, who was charged with illegally downloading top secret data on nuclear weapons. ''this is good news for dr. lee, as mr. gorence was an experienced prosecutor,'' said mark holscher, one of mr. lee's lawyers. mr. gorence would not comment. it was unclear whether mr. gorence would remain with the united states attorney's office at this point. but the defense lawyers made it clear that they would not tolerate any delays in the proceedings, and that they would settle for nothing less than the ability to use at his trial all the data mr. lee is accused of illegally downloading. a new york university political science professor, lawrence mead, was brought in one day a week to provide advice for about $1,000 a day, city officials said. and an executive at a conservative social-services research organization, the hudson institute of indianapolis, was retained. that executive, andrew bush, was ultimately selected for a permanent high-level job as an agency administrator. gov george w bush proposes set of tax breaks to encourage more people to buy long-term care insurance and to ease financial burden on people looking after ailing relatives at home; long-term care insurance fills gap in what is provided by private and corporate health care policies and medicare; it covers cost of extended stay in nursing home or assisted-living center for people whose financial resources have not dwindled to point where they qualify for medicaid; bush says that to many senior citizens, illness is path to financial ruin; bush offers his proposal during visit to nursing home in davenport, iowa; photo (m) gov. george w. bush of texas proposed a set of tax breaks today to encourage more people to buy long-term-care insurance and to ease the financial burden on people looking after ailing relatives at home. under mr. bush's plan, which anticipates the fast-growing number of older americans, people of any age who buy insurance for the kind of extended nursing-home stays not covered by other policies or by medicare could fully deduct the annual premium from their taxes, whether they itemize deductions or not. gov. george w. bush of texas proposed a set of tax breaks today to encourage more people to buy long-term-care insurance and to ease the financial burden on people looking after ailing relatives at home. under mr. bush's plan, which anticipates the fast-growing number of older americans, people of any age who buy insurance for the kind of extended nursing-home stays not covered by other policies or by medicare could fully deduct the annual premium from their taxes, whether they itemize deductions or not. ''to many of our seniors, illness can be a path to financial ruin, and this is one of the greatest fears of retirement and our nation must address it as we head into the 21st century,'' mr. bush, the likely republican presidential nominee, told about 80 people at a nursing home here. the scope and expense of mr. bush's proposal was modest -- it would cost $7.4 billion over five years -- and some critics said it would make only the smallest of dents in a problem that is becoming ever more severe. but the plan represents an effort to demonstrate that mr. bush is paying heed to health care and to elderly people, an issue and a voting bloc that could be decisive in the presidential election this fall. mr. bush seemed to take the dynamics of the electorate into full account with remarks that aimed for a kind of political trifecta, singling out and offering reassurances not only to the elderly but also to baby boomers and to women. his message to baby boomers was that their anticipatory qualms about retirement were foremost in his mind, while his nod to women was his recognition that they typically shoulder most of the responsibility for older relatives. but the elderly were arguably his most important audience, because vice president al gore has asserted that he has more thoughtful and responsible ideas for both health care and social security. mr. bush was clearly trying to challenge that claim. he intends to follow today's proposals with a speech on monday outlining his philosophy on changing social security and medicare and dealing with the high cost of prescription drugs. the high stakes of the presidential candidates' jostling over these issues was suggested by the fact the gore campaign arranged for reporters to talk on the phone today with the secretary of health and human services, donna e. shalala. dr. shalala did not seem to be fully aware about what, exactly, mr. bush was recommending, but she said the plausibility of all of his proposals was thrown into doubt by his call for a tax cut of $483 billion over five years, which is much larger than the tax cut mr. gore favors. dr. shalala also said that mr. bush's financial incentives to buy long-term care insurance did nothing to address the flaws of many of the policies on the market and that the exemption that mr. bush would grant home caregivers was nowhere near as generous as the $3,000 tax credit that the clinton administration had proposed and that mr. gore supports. the exemption, for someone in a 15 percent tax bracket would amount to only a few hundred dollars a year. long-term care insurance, which fills a gap in what is provided by private and corporate health care policies and medicare, covers the cost of an extended stay in a nursing home or assisted-living center for people whose financial resources have not dwindled to the point where they qualify for medicaid. figures provided by the bush campaign indicated, only about 5 percent of americans had such policies. an aide to mr. bush said that a 39-year-old person would pay an annual premium of about $358 for a policy that guaranteed two years of nursing home care, and $507 for a policy that guaranteed five years; a 64-year-old would pay about $1,265 for the two-year guarantee and $1,709 for the five-year one. the older the person buying the policy, the more it costs. more than 40 percent of americans over the age of 65 have annual incomes of under $20,000. joshua m. wiener, a principal research associate at the urban institute in washington, noted that these people would be unable to afford such a policy even after mr. bush's deduction, which would shave only a few hundred dollars off the price. ''this is basically for the upper-middle-class elderly,'' mr. wiener said of mr. bush's proposal. the bush plan also sets no income ceiling for eligibility, so that wealthy americans in higher tax brackets would save more on the policies than middle-class americans, because the tax deduction would be more valuable for them. but an aide to mr. bush said the plan was not intended primarily for these people, many of whom have jobs that already offer long-term care benefits and thus would not qualify for the deduction. and mr. bush, citing figures on the looming rise in the number of americans over 65, said it was important to put mechanisms into place to encourage their financial security and to decrease the number who will end up needing public money and help. that freed me to return to the landscape planner at garden.com, where i also ordered heuchera palace purple ($4.99 a plant for bare-root specimens, compared with $11.99 for a bushy container plant at a local nursery). garden.com said the plants would not arrive before may 15, which gives me enough time to think about how an icon representing a big brown dog might look sitting in the middle of them. prof francine s romero letter disputes lynn scarlett's may 9 op-ed article on texas gov george bush's environmental record; says efforts to portray him as conservationist are absurd (s) re ''bush's friendlier path to clean air'' (op-ed, may 9): incentive-based efforts are, as lynn scarlett notes, a positive mechanism for land preservation in texas. but she doesn't mention gov. george w. bush's most notable legacy in regard to land preservation. re ''bush's friendlier path to clean air'' (op-ed, may 9): incentive-based efforts are, as lynn scarlett notes, a positive mechanism for land preservation in texas. but she doesn't mention gov. george w. bush's most notable legacy in regard to land preservation. thus, policies like san antonio's effort to preserve tracts of land that are home to large, native trees are rendered largely ineffectual. given the full record, efforts to portray governor bush as a conservationist are absurd. george w. bush -- no public appearances are planned. al gore -- los angeles, cudahy and beverly hills, calif. george w. bush -- no public appearances are planned. al gore -- los angeles, cudahy and beverly hills, calif. vice president al gore and many congressional democrats have denounced the republicans as slow to act on the issue. gov. george w. bush, the likely republican presidential nominee, has said he will support an extension of the moratorium. but the governor must tread carefully around the issue because texas, which does not have a state income tax, would stand to lose substantial revenue if sales taxes are not made workable on the internet. a spokesman for al gore said the vice president supported a two-year extension of the moratorium ''at a minimum.'' if a five-year moratorium is put into place, ''it should include flexibility'' to adjust federal policies on internet taxation ''to take into account the fast-paced change in the internet world.'' That freed me to return to the Landscape Planner at Garden.com, where I also ordered Heuchera Palace Purple ($4.99 a plant for bare-root specimens, compared with $11.99 for a bushy container plant at a local nursery). Garden.com said the plants would not arrive before May 15, which gives me enough time to think about how an icon representing a big brown dog might look sitting in the middle of them. That freed me to return to the Landscape Planner at Garden.com, where I also ordered Heuchera Palace Purple ($4.99 a plant for bare-root specimens, compared with $11.99 for a bushy container plant at a local nursery). Garden.com said the plants would not arrive before May 15, which gives me enough time to think about how an icon representing a big brown dog might look sitting in the middle of them. That freed me to return to the Landscape Planner at Garden.com, where I also ordered Heuchera Palace Purple ($4.99 a plant for bare-root specimens, compared with $11.99 for a bushy container plant at a local nursery). Garden.com said the plants would not arrive before May 15, which gives me enough time to think about how an icon representing a big brown dog might look sitting in the middle of them.