 has he vanished into the bush? did a rival militia kidnap him? was he even alive? the united nations force said it did not have him, and did not know his whereabouts. in the confusion on monday, united nations peacekeepers fled from the compound and apparently did not return in time to see what happened to mr. sankoh. it was with that message that mr. sankoh began a civil war from the bush in 1991. the message struck a chord. sierra leone, rich with diamonds, had long been controlled by a corrupt elite made up of lebanese businessmen and urban sierra leoneans. many of those sierra leoneans were descendants of the freed slaves who gave the capital its name and formed a privileged class. maureen dowd humorous op-ed column on george w bush's scant knowledge about television programs (m) a reporter for glamour magazine, david france, interviewed governor bush on ''women's issues'' by playing a game of ''verbal rorschach'':  ''i was rattling off names and concepts, and he was telling me the first thought that came to his mind.'' (w. still likes to live dangerously.) mr. france said ''phyllis schlafly.'' mr. bush replied, ''icon of the conservative right.'' mr. france said ''madonna.'' mr. bush replied, ''i'm not into pop music.'' mr. france said ''gloria steinem.'' mr. bush replied, ''uh, pioneer.'' mr. france said ''sex and the city.'' mr. bush's face ''blistered in a purple fury,'' and his eyes narrowed and glowered. the candidate clearly thought he was being challenged on his claim of monogamy or support of teenage abstinence. gordon johndroe, mr. bush's press aide, tried to clear up the confusion. ''governor,'' he said, ''it's an hbo television show.'' mr. bush has condi rice and a raft of coaches to prop him up on foreign affairs. but, as broderick crawford said of judy holliday's billie dawn in ''born yesterday,'' who's going to buy the kid some culture? ''president gore.'' eye on 2004 race? -- though this year's presidential primary season is not officially over, a coming fund-raiser in georgia is already stoking speculation about races four years or so down the road. next monday, jeanne shaheen, the democratic governor of new hampshire, will be the beneficiary of an event in atlanta -- a bit south of concord -- that planners hope will raise at least $25,000 for her re-election. and one of the hosts, as well as one of the contributors, will be georgia's governor, roy barnes, a first-term democrat who is beginning to win national attention for his policies on improving schools and limiting sprawl. robert s. kahn, mr. barnes's chief of staff, says his boss was simply supporting a fellow democratic governor, not pocketing a chit to be cashed later, in time for new hampshire's first-in-the-nation primary in 2004 or 2008. ''the only election he's interested in, other than legislative elections, is his own re-election,'' mr. kahn insisted. the event is being organized by michael coles, a prominent party fund-raiser and barnes ally who met ms. shaheen while working for vice president al gore in new hampshire last winter. in an october 1999 letter from vice president al gore to mr. putin, who was then the prime minister, the clinton administration complained that russia was failing to take action against russian institutions that were still assisting iran's missile program. mr. savelyev said the letter was read to him by a member of mr. putin's staff. o'connor-john cardinal. the ronald s. lauder foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian john cardinal o'connor. we gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of kristallnacht organized by our foundation. his moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. ronald s. lauder, president marjorie s. federbush, executive vice president rabbi chaskel o. besser, chairman for poland and ukraine o'connor-john cardinal. the ronald s. lauder foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian john cardinal o'connor. we gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of kristallnacht organized by our foundation. his moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. ronald s. lauder, president marjorie s. federbush, executive vice president rabbi chaskel o. besser, chairman for poland and ukraine fates-j. gilbert, on may 1, 2000. beloved husband of faye appleberry. proud, adoring father of amy, gib, decia. smitten fatherin-law of yolanda. friend of bushrod and mazie. born sept. 29, 1913, in newark, nj to dora racicot and joseph faatz, gil graduated from the university of virginia in 1937. after a brief stint in legitimate theater, his career as a pioneer in t.v. was launched with cbs in 1941 and, after service in the coast guard during wwii, continued for some 50 years, most with goodson-todman productions, where he produced such classic game and panel shows as ''to tell the truth,'' ''i've got a secret,'' and ''what's my line?'' an avid fisherman, seasoned world traveler, relentless photographer, jazz aficionado, skilled tinkerer, sublime dancer, passable but enthusiastic golfer, peerless raconteur, gil's warmth, intelligence, humor and generosity will be missed and long remembered by legions of friends and acquaintances. his life, spirit and knowledge have enriched us in innumerable ways. his tragic loss will be keenly and permanently felt. faye, amy, gib & yolanda, decia, berta fates-j. gilbert, on may 1, 2000. beloved husband of faye appleberry. proud, adoring father of amy, gib, decia. smitten fatherin-law of yolanda. friend of bushrod and mazie. born sept. 29, 1913, in newark, nj to dora racicot and joseph faatz, gil graduated from the university of virginia in 1937. after a brief stint in legitimate theater, his career as a pioneer in t.v. was launched with cbs in 1941 and, after service in the coast guard during wwii, continued for some 50 years, most with goodson-todman productions, where he produced such classic game and panel shows as ''to tell the truth,'' ''i've got a secret,'' and ''what's my line?'' an avid fisherman, seasoned world traveler, relentless photographer, jazz aficionado, skilled tinkerer, sublime dancer, passable but enthusiastic golfer, peerless raconteur, gil's warmth, intelligence, humor and generosity will be missed and long remembered by legions of friends and acquaintances. his life, spirit and knowledge have enriched us in innumerable ways. his tragic loss will be keenly and permanently felt. faye, amy, gib & yolanda, decia, berta excerpts from news conference by gov george w bush and sen john mccain announcing mccain's endorsement of bush for president following are excerpts from a news conference yesterday by gov. george w. bush and senator john mccain, announcing mr. mccain's endorsement of mr. bush for president, as recorded by the new york times. q. -- senator, why do you have difficulty using the word ''endorsement'' in your support for governor bush? following are excerpts from a news conference yesterday by gov. george w. bush and senator john mccain, announcing mr. mccain's endorsement of mr. bush for president, as recorded by the new york times. q. -- senator, why do you have difficulty using the word ''endorsement'' in your support for governor bush? mr. mccain. -- i endorse governor bush. i endorse -- i endorse governor bush. i endorse governor bush. i endorse governor bush. i endorse governor bush. i endorse governor bush. i endorse governor ---- mr. bush. -- by the way, i enthusiastically accept. q. -- does that have to do with the feelings you still have about the primary that you ran and the bitterness you had at the time about some of the tactics that governor bush used? mr. mccain. -- look, the only way you can approach american politics and seeking elective office is to move forward. for me to look back in anger or with any rancor would be a mistake. it would harm me; it would harm governor bush, and it would harm those who supported me in this campaign. i look forward and not back. i hold no rancor. others will be the judge of this campaign, not me. mr. bush. -- well, i think this endorsement's important because of that reason. and it's going to be a big difference of opinion between what he and i believe and what vice president gore believes. vice president gore's willing to accept the status quo. he's willing to think the current system is going to work. and we don't. . . . q. -- senator, can you tell us what, in your view, is the single most important reason why al gore should not be president? mr. mccain. -- i think the single most important reason is that governor bush is the most qualified person to be president of the united states. he has the vision; he has the knowledge and the expertise to carry out the mission of maintaining united states supremacy, both militarily and economically in the world. i think that it's clear that governor bush's philosophy, his ideals and his ability to articulate a vision for the future is the major reason why he should be president of the united states and not al gore. and i want to emphasize one more time, and i made it very clear to governor bush, i will continue to pursue the issues of reform. that is the agenda that drove me in my campaign and will drive me as long as i am in public service. i believe we will have disagreements, but i also believe we will have a lot more agreements than disagreements. and i think our discussions and our debate will be healthy, and in the long run helpful to the party and the country. american ballet theater celebrates its 60th annivesary, with gala performance at metropolitan opera house; tipper gore, honorary chairwoman of gala, is introduced by caroline kennedy and sen charles e schumer; anna kisselgoff reviews performance; photo (m) tipper gore, who was honorary chairman of the gala with vice president al gore (not present), was introduced by caroline kennedy and senator charles schumer of new york, who were introduced at the start by hamilton james, chairman of the company's board. like ms. kennedy, senator schumer urged strong support for the arts. mrs. gore offered her variation on the theme, broadening it into an appreciation of ''the arts as part of our national heritage.'' ''swan lake,'' in a new staging by kevin mckenzie, the company's artistic director, was represented by an excerpt from act ii and started the dancing on the program. thomas j crowley letter, replying to lynn scarlett's may 9 op-ed supporting gov george w bush's environmental record, says texas is state marked by reckless industrial development, with virtually no concern for environment; notes that houston has surpassed los angeles as most polluted city in country it is hard to believe that lynn scarlett's supportive description of george w. bush's environmental program in texas (''bush's friendlier path to clean air,'' op-ed, may 9) applies to the state where i live. what we have here is reckless industrial development, with virtually no concern for the environment. it is hard to believe that lynn scarlett's supportive description of george w. bush's environmental program in texas (''bush's friendlier path to clean air,'' op-ed, may 9) applies to the state where i live. what we have here is reckless industrial development, with virtually no concern for the environment. george w. bush -- davenport, iowa  al gore -- arlington, va.; jacksonville, ark.; dallas; burbank, calif. george w. bush -- davenport, iowa  al gore -- arlington, va.; jacksonville, ark.; dallas; burbank, calif. lining up for china trade bill  former presidents gerald r. ford and jimmy carter joined president clinton, vice president al gore and an array of senior officials from democratic and republican administrations to press congress to approve the china trade bill. mccain endorses bush, citing goals and values  senator john mccain endorsed gov. george w. bush and pledged to help the de facto republican presidential nominee win the white house for their party. the announcement followed a private 90-minute meeting in pittsburgh between the two primary campaign rivals. mr. mccain indicated that common goals and shared values transcended the animosity that grew out of their campaign. editorial on sen john mccain's endorsement of gov george w bush expresses disappointment that bush offered no concessions on issues to win needed support; urges bush to adopt mccain's stand in favor of campaign finance reform for a defeated candidate in the republican presidential race, senator john mccain has not suffered from lack of attention. with his high poll numbers, mr. mccain might have made a credible  third-party candidate in november. yesterday, however, he took the prudent course and endorsed gov. george w. bush, joking that he preferred taking his medicine now rather than later. clearly he figured that he had a brighter future inside the g.o.p. than as a spoiler outside it. it was disappointing that mr. bush offered no concessions on campaign reform or other issues in return for an endorsement he really needed. for a defeated candidate in the republican presidential race, senator john mccain has not suffered from lack of attention. with his high poll numbers, mr. mccain might have made a credible  third-party candidate in november. yesterday, however, he took the prudent course and endorsed gov. george w. bush, joking that he preferred taking his medicine now rather than later. clearly he figured that he had a brighter future inside the g.o.p. than as a spoiler outside it. it was disappointing that mr. bush offered no concessions on campaign reform or other issues in return for an endorsement he really needed. in approaching the meeting with mr. mccain yesterday, mr. bush seemed to have this history in mind. he made it clear that he wanted the senator's endorsement, but did not want to seem to want it too much. in their joint news conference the governor tried to stress how much they had in common. but he did not look especially pleased about mr. mccain's vow to continue pressing his agenda. he may have been wondering whether the senator would try to do that at the convention in philadelphia this summer. the continuing popularity of mr. mccain can be seen in many surveys, including a recent nbc/wall street journal poll showing that 23 percent of the voters would prefer him over mr. bush or vice president al gore. the usa today/cnn/gallup poll shows him with higher approval ratings than either man. the bush campaign has always been quick to assert that mr. mccain got his biggest victories in states where independents and democrats could join with republicans and vote in the primary. but it is these independent-minded voters who will determine the winner in november. it will not be easy for either mr. bush or mr. gore, both wealthy political heirs, to attract voters who are drawn to mr. mccain's outsider appeal. mr. bush, for his part, has been resistant to identifying with two issues that seem intrinsic to mr. mccain's appeal. one is campaign finance reform, particularly the mccain-feingold soft-money ban, which mr. bush opposes. another is mr. mccain's opposition to a gigantic tax cut that would use up the budget surplus. mr. bush probably feels locked in on taxes, but he would be smart to adopt mr. mccain's stand on campaign finance reform. otherwise he may find that mccain voters are as hard to get as the senator's endorsement was. former presidents gerald r ford and jimmy carter and array of top officials from democratic and republican administrations rally with pres clinton and vice pres al gore at white house to urge congress to approve bill to grant china permanent normal trading privileges; clinton intensifies his lobbying in advance of house vote (m) two former presidents and an array of senior officials from democratic and republican administrations rallied today with president clinton and vice president al gore at the white house to urge congress to approve a landmark china trade bill. two former presidents and an array of senior officials from democratic and republican administrations rallied today with president clinton and vice president al gore at the white house to urge congress to approve a landmark china trade bill. sandwiched between mr. clinton and the former presidents in turns at the microphone, mr. gore, the presumptive democratic presidential nominee, appeared reluctant to give his full-throated endorsement. his words sounded like support. but his subdued tone suggested the pains that mr. gore has taken to avoid alienating a pivotal ally, organized labor, which opposes the accord. ''it is right for american jobs, it is right for the cause of reform in china, and i believe it will move us closer to the strong and stable world community that we all seek to create,'' mr. gore said. sen john mccain, citing common goals and shared values that transcend any bitterness between them, endorses gov george w bush for president and pledges to campaign for him, news conference with bush, pittsburgh; it remains unclear how much mccain will do for bush; photos (m) citing common goals and shared values that transcended any of the bitterness between them, senator john mccain at last endorsed gov. george w. bush today and pledged to help him achieve what mr. mccain had wanted so badly for himself: a seat behind the desk in the oval office. ''i look forward to enthusiastically campaigning for governor bush for the next six months,'' mr. mccain said at a news conference here that was attended by more than 100 members of the news media, a reflection of just how unpredictable and closely watched the interactions between the arizona senator and the texas governor had become. citing common goals and shared values that transcended any of the bitterness between them, senator john mccain at last endorsed gov. george w. bush today and pledged to help him achieve what mr. mccain had wanted so badly for himself: a seat behind the desk in the oval office. ''i look forward to enthusiastically campaigning for governor bush for the next six months,'' mr. mccain said at a news conference here that was attended by more than 100 members of the news media, a reflection of just how unpredictable and closely watched the interactions between the arizona senator and the texas governor had become. ''i believe that it's very important that we restore integrity and honor to the white house,'' mr. mccain said. ''i'm convinced that governor bush can do that more than adequately.'' [excerpts, page a28.] the announcement by mr. mccain, which followed his private 90-minute meeting with mr. bush, heralded a new phase in a rocky political relationship that went from remarkable amity in december to extraordinary animosity in march and a tense, delicate dance of reconciliation over the last two months. even more important, mr. mccain's formal endorsement allowed mr. bush to lay claim to a unified party, to put an important piece of unfinished business behind him and to reach out to independent and swing voters with the blessing of mr. mccain, who had proved to be alluring to that group in the primaries. but aides to mr. bush and mr. mccain and political analysts said it remained unclear just how much work mr. mccain would do on mr. bush's behalf -- and just how thoroughly the wounds of a lacerating primary season had healed. mr. mccain's often tepid demeanor and restrained language today only heightened those questions. he repeated several times that his support for governor bush did not alter or diminish his commitment to an overhaul of campaign funding laws that was more sweeping than the plan favored by mr. bush. he did not actually use the words ''endorse'' or ''endorsement'' until reporters pressed him to make sure they understood correctly what was going on. at that point, mr. mccain made something of a comedy routine, saying, ''i endorse governor bush,'' six times in a row. and when one journalist asked mr. mccain if his actions today -- an almost inevitable obligation for any politician wishing to remain loyal to his party -- were like swallowing a dose of necessary medicine sooner rather than later, mr. mccain answered, ''i think 'take the medicine now' probably is a good description.'' mr. bush's aides chose to interpret the ambiguous remark as an example of the senator's sometimes deadpan humor, and it did not diminish their conviction, shared by many republican operatives, that the texas governor had accomplished something important today. mr. mccain also made clear today that he had told mr. bush what he had been saying publicly for some time: that he had no interest in the vice presidency. he and mr. bush said they had discussed other strong candidates, including governors tom ridge of pennsylvania, christine todd whitman of new jersey, tommy g. thompson of wisconsin and john engler of michigan. in accepting mr. mccain's endorsement, mr. bush heaped praise on him, providing a stark contrast to some of the dismissive remarks that he and his aides had made about mr. mccain after mr. bush effectively secured the republican presidential nomination in mid-march. ''i told him point blank he made me a better candidate,'' mr. bush said, referring to their meeting in a room of the westin william penn hotel here. ''he waged a really good campaign and put me through my paces. and as a result of the campaign, i stand better prepared to become the president, which is exactly what i intend to do.'' ''for me to look back in anger or with any rancor would be a mistake,'' he said. ''it would harm me. it would harm governor bush. and it would harm those who supported me in this campaign.'' but the tone of his remarks suggested that his ire and that of his aides over the negative tactics used by mr. bush and his supporters in the primaries had not dissipated. that anger was rekindled today when mr. bush dodged a question about whether he would repudiate a  statement by the evangelist pat robertson two days ago that choosing mr. mccain as a vice president would be dangerous. rick davis, who had managed mr. mccain's campaign, said of the bush response: ''i'm very disappointed. i don't think there's a republican around who doesn't think pat robertson's comments sunday were outside the mainstream of our party. what's the harm of saying that?'' political analysts said mr. mccain's eventual endorsement of mr. bush was never really in much doubt, in part because the senator, seen as something of a maverick in his own party, needed to show his  peers that he could follow the loyal, polite course. that would be critical if mr. bush loses and mr. mccain seeks to become the party's nominee four years from now. but the road leading to this point was bumpy, and it was not clear until monday that this morning's meeting, scheduled a month ago, would bring the waiting to an end. mr. mccain's previous statements that he would support the party's nominee fell short of a formal seal of approval and fueled speculation, which mr. bush's aides were eager to quell, about what was taking so long. the two men's aides said mr. bush did not offer mr. mccain anything concrete in exchange for his support. and one mccain supporter said efforts by the aides to hammer out a document detailing joint policy goals had failed. but mr. mccain's aides have let bush campaign officials know that the arizona senator would like a prominent speaking role at the republican national convention, and the bush campaign has indicated interest in making that happen. coming out of the meeting, both mr. mccain and mr. bush acknowledged that they still had policy disagreements, although they declined to linger on them. during the primaries, for example, mr. mccain repeatedly asserted that the size of mr. bush's proposed tax cut might jeopardize the health of social security. and mr. mccain's vision of campaign finance reform, for example, includes bans on unlimited donations to political parties from both corporations and individuals; mr. bush does not think individual contributions should be limited. aides to both politicians said there had not yet been any discussion about specific ways in which mr. mccain could or would bolster mr. bush's campaign. ''he went from huge media star and man-of-the-moment to having to fall back in line,'' said william dal col, who managed steve forbes's campaign for the republican nomination. ''but it'll get better and better as time goes by, and if he wants to run in 2004, the smart thing for him to do is be as energetic and pro-bush as possible.'' vice pres al gore speaks to anti-defamation league, washington; draws contrast between sen john mccain and gov george w bush; photo (m) al gore goes catskill. on a day when the nation's political attention seemed focused on senator john mccain's endorsement of gov. george w. bush of texas for president, the notably unethnic, southern baptist vice president said the heck with it and tried out a borscht belt routine before a largely jewish audience here. al gore goes catskill. on a day when the nation's political attention seemed focused on senator john mccain's endorsement of gov. george w. bush of texas for president, the notably unethnic, southern baptist vice president said the heck with it and tried out a borscht belt routine before a largely jewish audience here. mr. gore, whose family comes from tennessee, told the anti-defamation league that a sub-genre of music was proliferating in nashville: the jewish country-western song. but mr. gore really wanted to get in on the mccain-bush act. and mr. gore, who has been lagging in the polls behind mr. bush, is still overtly courting the independent-minded voters who were attracted to mr. mccain's candidacy. on april 30, mr. gore met privately with mr. mccain at the naval observatory here, the vice president's official residence. and today, his little humor routine aside, mr. gore used his speech to about 450 members of the anti-defamation league to draw a contrast between mr. mccain and mr. bush. without naming the two republicans, mr. gore said it was wrong not to condemn south carolina's flying the confederate battle flag atop the statehouse in columbia. mr. bush has said repeatedly that it is up to the state to decide whether to bring it down. mr. mccain said the same thing in the republican primaries, but last month he expressed regret for not having spoken out against the flag, saying he was afraid that such a stand would have cost him votes. mr. gore said today of the flag issue: ''we know it is wrong not only to support it, but to find it impossible to summon the moral courage to speak out about it. it is wrong to remain silent about it.'' mr. gore's remarks allowed room for mr. mccain's reversal but not for mr. bush's continued refusal to condemn the flying of the flag. the speech was an official one as vice president, and the league is a tax-exempt organization that cannot endorse political candidates. but it was certainly a political speech, designed to paint mr. bush as an extremist and undermine any impression that mr. mccain's endorsement might make mr. bush more acceptable to independents. independent voters are definitely on mr. gore's mind. much of his campaign since march, when he won enough delegates to secure the democratic nomination, has been geared toward swing voters in battleground states like illinois, michigan, missouri, ohio and pennsylvania. and just as he has been wooing mccain supporters, mr. gore has also been going after the backers of jesse ventura, the independent governor of minnesota. as it happened, mr. ventura was at the white house this morning for a pep rally in support of permanent trade relations with china, and mr. gore singled him out for thanks, among others, as did president clinton. last month, mr. gore also had a private dinner with governor ventura and his wife at the vice-presidential residence. the gateway topic for mr. gore to cozy up to both mr. mccain and mr. ventura has been overhauling the campaign finance system, and aides said they expected the vice president to explore the topic publicly with both as the campaign progressed. even though mr. gore's speech to the league poked fun at his own obvious differences with his audience, he still hoped to convey his commitment to their causes. ''i feel right at home here,'' he said. mr. gore's commitments included support for a national law against hate crimes. this amounted to another dig at mr. bush, who critics have said failed to shepherd through such a law in texas. in a speech that extolled the virtues of tolerance, he sprinkled his comments with references to famous jews. ''freud once spoke about the narcissism of slight difference, just as einstein taught that the most destructive power known on earth is within the smallest state we know -- the inside of the atom,'' mr. gore said. ''the smallest differences sometimes unleash the most horrific violence.'' still, howard berkowitz, national chairman of the league, said it was concerned that both candidates were injecting too much religion into the campaign. ''we want to make sure that one candidate doesn't out-religion the other,'' he said, citing mr. bush's comment that jesus was his favorite philosopher. ''these things are better left in private,'' mr. berkowitz said. outfielder darryl hamilton underwent surgery on his left big toe tuesday, and general manager steve phillips said it would be six to eight weeks before he could start playing again. if hamilton needs a rehab assignment, it would be even longer before he could return to the mets. hamilton is three weeks from being able to run again. . . . the right-hander bobby j. jones will make his second rehab start for class aaa norfolk on friday at buffalo. jones, who has missed about a month with a strained right calf, said he has been told he would return to the mets after the second rehab start. . . . manager bobby valentine had lunch tuesday with texas gov. george w. bush, who was the owner of the texas rangers when valentine managed the team. Has he vanished into the bush? Did a rival militia kidnap him? Was he even alive? The United Nations force said it did not have him, and did not know his whereabouts. In the confusion on Monday, United Nations peacekeepers fled from the compound and apparently did not return in time to see what happened to Mr. Sankoh. It was with that message that Mr. Sankoh began a civil war from the bush in 1991. The message struck a chord. Sierra Leone, rich with diamonds, had long been controlled by a corrupt elite made up of Lebanese businessmen and urban Sierra Leoneans. Many of those Sierra Leoneans were descendants of the freed slaves who gave the capital its name and formed a privileged class. O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ronald S. Lauder Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian John Cardinal O'Connor. We gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of Kristallnacht organized by our foundation. His moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. Ronald S. Lauder, President Marjorie S. Federbush, Executive Vice President Rabbi Chaskel O. Besser, Chairman for Poland and Ukraine O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ronald S. Lauder Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian John Cardinal O'Connor. We gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of Kristallnacht organized by our foundation. His moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. Ronald S. Lauder, President Marjorie S. Federbush, Executive Vice President Rabbi Chaskel O. Besser, Chairman for Poland and Ukraine Has he vanished into the bush? Did a rival militia kidnap him? Was he even alive? The United Nations force said it did not have him, and did not know his whereabouts. In the confusion on Monday, United Nations peacekeepers fled from the compound and apparently did not return in time to see what happened to Mr. Sankoh. It was with that message that Mr. Sankoh began a civil war from the bush in 1991. The message struck a chord. Sierra Leone, rich with diamonds, had long been controlled by a corrupt elite made up of Lebanese businessmen and urban Sierra Leoneans. Many of those Sierra Leoneans were descendants of the freed slaves who gave the capital its name and formed a privileged class. O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ronald S. Lauder Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian John Cardinal O'Connor. We gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of Kristallnacht organized by our foundation. His moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. Ronald S. Lauder, President Marjorie S. Federbush, Executive Vice President Rabbi Chaskel O. Besser, Chairman for Poland and Ukraine O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ronald S. Lauder Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian John Cardinal O'Connor. We gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of Kristallnacht organized by our foundation. His moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. Ronald S. Lauder, President Marjorie S. Federbush, Executive Vice President Rabbi Chaskel O. Besser, Chairman for Poland and Ukraine Has he vanished into the bush? Did a rival militia kidnap him? Was he even alive? The United Nations force said it did not have him, and did not know his whereabouts. In the confusion on Monday, United Nations peacekeepers fled from the compound and apparently did not return in time to see what happened to Mr. Sankoh. It was with that message that Mr. Sankoh began a civil war from the bush in 1991. The message struck a chord. Sierra Leone, rich with diamonds, had long been controlled by a corrupt elite made up of Lebanese businessmen and urban Sierra Leoneans. Many of those Sierra Leoneans were descendants of the freed slaves who gave the capital its name and formed a privileged class. O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ronald S. Lauder Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian John Cardinal O'Connor. We gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of Kristallnacht organized by our foundation. His moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. Ronald S. Lauder, President Marjorie S. Federbush, Executive Vice President Rabbi Chaskel O. Besser, Chairman for Poland and Ukraine O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ronald S. Lauder Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian John Cardinal O'Connor. We gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of Kristallnacht organized by our foundation. His moral voice and inspired leadership will always be remembered. Ronald S. Lauder, President Marjorie S. Federbush, Executive Vice President Rabbi Chaskel O. Besser, Chairman for Poland and Ukraine