 mary-margaret sharp patterson letter suggests gov george w bush attend one of the many executions he presides over in texas; recalls that, after witnessing hanging in 1920's, her father spent rest of his career as newspaper editor opposing capital punishment (s) gov. george w. bush of texas should rectify the fact that he has never witnessed an execution by witnessing the next of the many executions he presides over as governor (front page, may 14). gov. george w. bush of texas should rectify the fact that he has never witnessed an execution by witnessing the next of the many executions he presides over as governor (front page, may 14). uganda: rebel leaders captured -- the army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern congo, capturing five commanders of the allied democratic forces, according to the army spokesman, capt. shaban bantariza. those captured included bwambale ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as junju and bilambala. the ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, mansur arinaitwe, surrendered to ugandan troops in congo. the allied democratic forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust president yoweri museveni. uganda: rebel leaders captured -- the army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern congo, capturing five commanders of the allied democratic forces, according to the army spokesman, capt. shaban bantariza. those captured included bwambale ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as junju and bilambala. the ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, mansur arinaitwe, surrendered to ugandan troops in congo. the allied democratic forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust president yoweri museveni. while the blazes can be battled, if slowly, it has proved more difficult to stem the flood of people who see the peten as the promised land. it is a deceptive vision of lush land, since the thin layer of humus is unsuitable for agriculture. settlers burn trees and bushes to enrich the ground with nutrients, which makes the land arable for three years at most. then new land is cleared. the evening's dedication, to the memory of edward gorey and anna sokolow, says much about ms. anthony's work, which merges the untethered fantasy of gorey's drawn world with the unerring emotional accuracy of the best of sokolow's dance plays. in her new ''seeing i,'' the beckett dance, a trio of drab men (peter campbell, jackson kent and brendan mccall) sit, rise and move about a small space in a magritte-like triplicate image of a single man dressed in brown trousers, suspenders, white shirt and brown shoes. the evening's dedication, to the memory of edward gorey and anna sokolow, says much about ms. anthony's work, which merges the untethered fantasy of gorey's drawn world with the unerring emotional accuracy of the best of sokolow's dance plays. in her new ''seeing i,'' the beckett dance, a trio of drab men (peter campbell, jackson kent and brendan mccall) sit, rise and move about a small space in a magritte-like triplicate image of a single man dressed in brown trousers, suspenders, white shirt and brown shoes. the governor has used the money to raise his profile nationally. he has hired nationally known political consultants like benjamin l. ginsberg, an elections specialist and washington lawyer who serves as a campaign adviser to gov. george w. bush of texas, and stephen moore, an economist with the cato institute in washington. n.r.a. leaders have done their best to stoke the siege mentalities of members. the cover of a new n.r.a. magazine, america's first freedom, features a drawing of a politician with vice president al gore's face and president clinton's hair. ''he's clinton to the gore: the face of gun hatred in america,'' reads the headline beside the drawing. many said they were particularly worried about a central proposal of the million mom march: registering handguns and licensing handgun owners. mr. gore has endorsed licensing all new handgun owners, among an array of other gun regulations. if there were gore supporters in the crowd, they were not admitting it publicly. just about everyone interviewed said they would vote for gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee. mr. bush has been a strong ally of the n.r.a. in texas, but recently he has tried to put some distance between himself and the organization, clearly aware that he needs to win the votes of some moderate democrats and independents in november. still, n.r.a. officials say the group will almost certainly throw its resources behind mr. bush. but in this crowd, even mr. bush's strong record of supporting the n.r.a. was not always considered enough. mr. kelleher said he thought mr. bush would probably allow a gradual erosion of the rights of gun owners. ''i'll vote for bush, but i won't be that upset if he loses,'' he said. a getaway for the gores -- vice president al gore and his wife, tipper, escaped washington yesterday to spend their 30th wedding anniversary at bethany beach in delaware. the gores were staying at the beach home of tony coelho, mr. gore's presidential campaign chairman, through sunday. the couple took a marine helicopter at taxpayer expense -- a requirement of the secret service, a spokesman said. accompanying them were mr. gore's secret service detail, a military aide and a press aide, although the white house had not notified reporters of the vice president's travel until yesterday afternoon, after the gores had left washington. mr. gore last month had told reporters covering his presidential campaign that he would notify them when he traveled, including on his anniversary. ''i will err on the side of openness and full access as much as possible,'' he said. but he apparently had not shared this decision with his wife, who has said she hopes to maintain her family's privacy even if her husband becomes president and in a recent interview questioned why reporters would need to accompany the vice president on private trips. a getaway for the gores -- vice president al gore and his wife, tipper, escaped washington yesterday to spend their 30th wedding anniversary at bethany beach in delaware. the gores were staying at the beach home of tony coelho, mr. gore's presidential campaign chairman, through sunday. the couple took a marine helicopter at taxpayer expense -- a requirement of the secret service, a spokesman said. accompanying them were mr. gore's secret service detail, a military aide and a press aide, although the white house had not notified reporters of the vice president's travel until yesterday afternoon, after the gores had left washington. mr. gore last month had told reporters covering his presidential campaign that he would notify them when he traveled, including on his anniversary. ''i will err on the side of openness and full access as much as possible,'' he said. but he apparently had not shared this decision with his wife, who has said she hopes to maintain her family's privacy even if her husband becomes president and in a recent interview questioned why reporters would need to accompany the vice president on private trips. bush in kentucky -- wending his way across kentucky on a campaign bus, gov. george w. bush took his ''compassionate conservatism'' on the road yesterday, calling on the elderly to volunteer. at a center for the elderly in paducah, mr. bush praised retired volunteers who share ''wisdom, experience and values'' as foster grandparents or mentors. he proposed to increase federal financing for such volunteer programs from $183 million a year to $240 million annually across five years. some of the money would go to a pilot program, under which 10,000 low-income elderly volunteers would earn a $1,000 scholarship for a grandchild or a child of their choice. gore web site attacks bush plan -- certain that governor bush has handed them the perfect campaign weapon with his social security proposal, the gore campaign unveiled a new web site this week devoted to attacking his plan. its not-so-subtle address: www.bushinsecurity.com. the home page features a photograph of rolling dice (mr. gore likes to accuse mr. bush of promoting ''casino economics'') and a picture of a slightly crazed-looking mr. bush over the caption, ''when he was asked if people could lose money under his plan, bush replied, 'maybe, maybe not.'' asked to respond to the web site, ari fleischer, mr. bush's spokesman, said, ''having invented the internet, you would have thought al gore could have used it for something positive and not just another attack barrage.'' he added that he would check the site to see whether it included a link to the white house web site that promotes the clinton administration's proposal to invest social security money in the stock market, an idea mr. gore once supported. before he made his announcement, mr. giuliani also informed mr. pataki; william d. powers, the state republican party chairman; trent lott, the senate majority leader; senator john mccain and gov. george w. bush, whom mr. giuliani endorsed for president. ''i told rudy that i understood it was a very difficult decision for him to make, and our prayers are with him,'' mr. bush said. ''he is my friend whether he's the candidate or not for the united states senate.'' gov. george w. bush of texas, whom mr. gregg strongly supported in the new hampshire presidential primary, has not addressed blocking the peacekeeping money, said condoleeza rice, mr. bush's chief foreign policy adviser. ''obviously,'' ms. rice said, ''the administration has some very hard work to do with congress over the peacekeeping issue.'' george w. bush -- austin al gore -- bethany beach, del. george w. bush -- austin al gore -- bethany beach, del. gov. jeb bush of florida is currently embroiled in a fight over an executive order that outlaws race-based admissions at the state universities -- while guaranteeing admissions to the top 20 percent of high school classes. mr. bush's order was meant to render moot a ballot initiative on affirmative action that republicans feared would heighten black turnout in this year's presidential election. the 20 percent rule seemed non-controversial and even generous -- until governor bush found that roughly two-thirds of additional black students who might benefit from the rule had been so neglected in high school that they had failed to graduate with the necessary credits for admission to the state university system. the state is now pushing public schools that serve black students to provide better course offerings. UGANDA: REBEL LEADERS CAPTURED -- The army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern Congo, capturing five commanders of the Allied Democratic Forces, according to the army spokesman, Capt. Shaban Bantariza. Those captured included Bwambale Ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as Junju and Bilambala. The ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, Mansur Arinaitwe, surrendered to Ugandan troops in Congo. The Allied Democratic Forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust President Yoweri Museveni. UGANDA: REBEL LEADERS CAPTURED -- The army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern Congo, capturing five commanders of the Allied Democratic Forces, according to the army spokesman, Capt. Shaban Bantariza. Those captured included Bwambale Ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as Junju and Bilambala. The ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, Mansur Arinaitwe, surrendered to Ugandan troops in Congo. The Allied Democratic Forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust President Yoweri Museveni. While the blazes can be battled, if slowly, it has proved more difficult to stem the flood of people who see the Peten as the promised land. It is a deceptive vision of lush land, since the thin layer of humus is unsuitable for agriculture. Settlers burn trees and bushes to enrich the ground with nutrients, which makes the land arable for three years at most. Then new land is cleared. GORE WEB SITE ATTACKS BUSH PLAN -- Certain that Governor Bush has handed them the perfect campaign weapon with his Social Security proposal, the Gore campaign unveiled a new Web site this week devoted to attacking his plan. Its not-so-subtle address: www.bushinsecurity.com. The home page features a photograph of rolling dice (Mr. Gore likes to accuse Mr. Bush of promoting ''casino economics'') and a picture of a slightly crazed-looking Mr. Bush over the caption, ''When he was asked if people could lose money under his plan, Bush replied, 'Maybe, maybe not.'' Asked to respond to the Web site, Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said, ''Having invented the Internet, you would have thought Al Gore could have used it for something positive and not just another attack barrage.'' He added that he would check the site to see whether it included a link to the White House Web site that promotes the Clinton administration's proposal to invest Social Security money in the stock market, an idea Mr. Gore once supported. UGANDA: REBEL LEADERS CAPTURED -- The army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern Congo, capturing five commanders of the Allied Democratic Forces, according to the army spokesman, Capt. Shaban Bantariza. Those captured included Bwambale Ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as Junju and Bilambala. The ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, Mansur Arinaitwe, surrendered to Ugandan troops in Congo. The Allied Democratic Forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust President Yoweri Museveni. UGANDA: REBEL LEADERS CAPTURED -- The army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern Congo, capturing five commanders of the Allied Democratic Forces, according to the army spokesman, Capt. Shaban Bantariza. Those captured included Bwambale Ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as Junju and Bilambala. The ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, Mansur Arinaitwe, surrendered to Ugandan troops in Congo. The Allied Democratic Forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust President Yoweri Museveni. While the blazes can be battled, if slowly, it has proved more difficult to stem the flood of people who see the Peten as the promised land. It is a deceptive vision of lush land, since the thin layer of humus is unsuitable for agriculture. Settlers burn trees and bushes to enrich the ground with nutrients, which makes the land arable for three years at most. Then new land is cleared. GORE WEB SITE ATTACKS BUSH PLAN -- Certain that Governor Bush has handed them the perfect campaign weapon with his Social Security proposal, the Gore campaign unveiled a new Web site this week devoted to attacking his plan. Its not-so-subtle address: www.bushinsecurity.com. The home page features a photograph of rolling dice (Mr. Gore likes to accuse Mr. Bush of promoting ''casino economics'') and a picture of a slightly crazed-looking Mr. Bush over the caption, ''When he was asked if people could lose money under his plan, Bush replied, 'Maybe, maybe not.'' Asked to respond to the Web site, Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said, ''Having invented the Internet, you would have thought Al Gore could have used it for something positive and not just another attack barrage.'' He added that he would check the site to see whether it included a link to the White House Web site that promotes the Clinton administration's proposal to invest Social Security money in the stock market, an idea Mr. Gore once supported. UGANDA: REBEL LEADERS CAPTURED -- The army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern Congo, capturing five commanders of the Allied Democratic Forces, according to the army spokesman, Capt. Shaban Bantariza. Those captured included Bwambale Ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as Junju and Bilambala. The ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, Mansur Arinaitwe, surrendered to Ugandan troops in Congo. The Allied Democratic Forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust President Yoweri Museveni. UGANDA: REBEL LEADERS CAPTURED -- The army ambushed a group of rebels in eastern Congo, capturing five commanders of the Allied Democratic Forces, according to the army spokesman, Capt. Shaban Bantariza. Those captured included Bwambale Ali, the top commander, and two officers identified as Junju and Bilambala. The ambush came less than a month after the rebel chief, Mansur Arinaitwe, surrendered to Ugandan troops in Congo. The Allied Democratic Forces have been fighting since 1996 to oust President Yoweri Museveni. While the blazes can be battled, if slowly, it has proved more difficult to stem the flood of people who see the Peten as the promised land. It is a deceptive vision of lush land, since the thin layer of humus is unsuitable for agriculture. Settlers burn trees and bushes to enrich the ground with nutrients, which makes the land arable for three years at most. Then new land is cleared. GORE WEB SITE ATTACKS BUSH PLAN -- Certain that Governor Bush has handed them the perfect campaign weapon with his Social Security proposal, the Gore campaign unveiled a new Web site this week devoted to attacking his plan. Its not-so-subtle address: www.bushinsecurity.com. The home page features a photograph of rolling dice (Mr. Gore likes to accuse Mr. Bush of promoting ''casino economics'') and a picture of a slightly crazed-looking Mr. Bush over the caption, ''When he was asked if people could lose money under his plan, Bush replied, 'Maybe, maybe not.'' Asked to respond to the Web site, Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said, ''Having invented the Internet, you would have thought Al Gore could have used it for something positive and not just another attack barrage.'' He added that he would check the site to see whether it included a link to the White House Web site that promotes the Clinton administration's proposal to invest Social Security money in the stock market, an idea Mr. Gore once supported.