 suburban hatfields and mccoys commonly feud over boundary encroachments (a new driveway or fence that creeps over the property line), trees and bushes (which might block a neighbor's view or sunlight) and eyesores. gov. george w. bush of texas has loads of plans, and they are beginning to make some democrats nervous. gov. george w. bush of texas has loads of plans, and they are beginning to make some democrats nervous. that vice president al gore has assumed a more passive posture in articulating his agenda has not been lost on his own party. and some of his supporters, with an eye on mr. bush's rising poll numbers, began expressing their anxieties publicly. with two months until the republicans meet in philadelphia for the first of the two presidential nominating conventions, nerves are beginning to fray. the republicans say the democratic national committee is about to start a big television campaign on behalf of mr. gore; the democrats say the republicans are already waging a television guerrilla war, with attack ads by special-interest groups on both the east and west coasts. state democratic leaders, meanwhile, descended on nashville to plan and make their own declaration of solidarity. some 72 party leaders from around the country met with mr. gore on thursday, and afterward several remarked that it was not only too early to worry about the polls, but also that mr. bush will not seem such a fresh face in time. one of the few books that most college graduates in this anticanonical age are expected to have heard of, if not to have read, is ''the structure of scientific revolutions,'' by thomas s. kuhn. first published in 1962, when its author was a 40-year-old professor of history at berkeley, it has been translated into two dozen languages and is cited in countless articles and books spanning virtually all social scientific and humanistic disciplines. journalists report that it is vice president al gore's favorite book. yet ''the structure of scientific revolutions'' was written for philosophers, not the general public. it is relentlessly academic. dozens of more accessible books about science and its history are forgotten soon after they appear. why did this treatise on scientific development become one of the most influential academic books of the 20th century? the question is given point by the fact that most defenders of this book, to say nothing of its critics, acknowledge that many of its arguments are flawed. as spectacular as it had been to see this swatch of northern california at the peak of its autumn foliage, june was even better. the days were warm and long and we switched from neoprene waders to lighter, more comfortable gore-tex versions from the clearwater rental shop. we returned to the pit to do some more full-impact nymphing, and then spent a quiet, enjoyable day learning to fish from skiffs on the fall river. fly fishing is the gift that keeps on costing. expect to pay in the $500 range for a good rod and about $200 for a good reel. not to mention the vest, the waders (neoprene or gore-tex, depending on the water temperature and the season), the wading boots and the tackle. the lodge sells fine equipment in its store, but neither the guides nor anyone else made any perceptible push to sell it. this thoughtful work has the feel of a lifelong obsession. an annapolis graduate, dr. perkins woke up to genuine leadership in vietnam, a brutal and unforgettable academy.  at one point he found himself in command of a marine convoy running a bloody gantlet along route 1 from chu lai to da nang. caught in a withering ambush, shaken and confused, he urged his column forward, concluding that the risk of crossing an open field of fire was better than sitting tight in the bull's-eye of the killing zone. (''a man sits as many risks as he runs,'' dr. perkins quotes henry david thoreau.) pinch aster, chrysanthemum, sneezeweed (helenium autumnale) and sedum autumn joy every couple of weeks until july to maintain bushiness and produce more flowers. maureen dowd op-ed article pokes fun at vice pres al gore's efforts to attract women voters; says gore campaign seems to equate going on date with picking president (m) al gore is desperate to get chicks. al gore is desperate to get chicks. still, he's getting the brush. in the latest new york times poll, george w. bush has a wide lead with men and, amazingly, edges out mr. gore with women (who elected bill clinton), 44 to 42 percent. even feminists are nagging mr. gore about his lack of oomph. gore pollster harrison hickman went to capitol hill the other day to tell democrats there was some good news: the campaign had conducted a focus group to ask women who would make a better date -- al gore or george w. bush -- and mr. gore won. mr. gore, someone at the meeting told me, was viewed as ''the nicer guy, who would be more stable and reliable. bush was seen as a guy who would dump you in a heartbeat.'' i personally am appalled that the gore campaign equates going on a date with picking a president. and anyhow, i know someone who went on a blind date with al gore eons ago. ''it was a complete dud,'' my friend recalls. ''he didn't talk to me. he wasn't a conversationalist, in any sense of the word.'' of course, mr. gore has probably changed a lot. for one thing, he has learned to cover his imperfections. w. disadvantages: aches and pains from a manic schedule of jogging, tennis, fishing and golfing. you could never go to his place. it would be a toxic-waste dump -- the only thing in the fridge, gatorade and a jar of grape jelly. he'd pick you up in a bonneville stuffed with old buddies and bushes. he'd try to prove gravitas by casually jamming a copy of lingua franca into his jeans pocket. letter from gloria feldt, president of planned parenthood action fund, says she, like gov george w bush, was raised in west texas; says he opposes abortion while she is lifelong advocate of reproductive rights re ''a philosophy with roots in conservative texas soil'' (front page, may 21): the environment that produced george w. bush, the self-proclaimed ''most anti-abortion governor in the country,'' also shaped the views of the president of planned parenthood. re ''a philosophy with roots in conservative texas soil'' (front page, may 21): the environment that produced george w. bush, the self-proclaimed ''most anti-abortion governor in the country,'' also shaped the views of the president of planned parenthood. west texas was a catalyst for my lifetime of advocacy for reproductive health and rights. conversely, mr. bush's presidential agenda would take women back to the 1950's. vice pres al gore criticizes gov george w bush's support for national missile defense system along with possible one-sided reduction in american nuclear warheads; gore claims such an approach would create instability and thus undermine american security; gore makes his remarks at commencement exercises at united states military academy at west point; it is his most detailed rebuttal yet of foreign policy address bush delivered recently, standing in front of several well-known republican foreign policy leaders; gore emphasizes that arms reductions should be pursued within negotiations and framework of existing arms control treaties (m) vice president al gore, speaking today at the united states military academy, criticized gov. george w. bush's support for a national missile defense system along with a possible one-sided reduction in american nuclear warheads. ''an approach that combines serious unilateral reductions with an attempt to build a massive defensive system will create instability and thus undermine our security,'' mr. gore told the west point graduates in a sun-splashed ceremony at the academy's michie stadium. vice president al gore, speaking today at the united states military academy, criticized gov. george w. bush's support for a national missile defense system along with a possible one-sided reduction in american nuclear warheads. ''an approach that combines serious unilateral reductions with an attempt to build a massive defensive system will create instability and thus undermine our security,'' mr. gore told the west point graduates in a sun-splashed ceremony at the academy's michie stadium. ''nuclear unilateralism will hinder, rather than help, arms control,'' mr. gore said, before handing out diplomas to the 944 graduates who trooped across the stage in their dress uniforms and white gloves. without mentioning mr. bush by name, mr. gore issued the most detailed rebuttal yet of the foreign policy address that mr. bush delivered in washington on tuesday. again and again, mr. gore assailed the notion of one-sided arms reductions, a prospect that mr. bush had raised at an appearance with a cast of well-known republican foreign policy leaders. mr. gore emphasized that reductions should be pursued within negotiations and the framework of existing arms control treaties. the vice president said that the clinton administration was already negotiating for bilateral cuts in nuclear arms and was considering a limited missile defense, but said the kind of approach recommended by mr. bush was misguided. ''reductions alone do not guarantee stability,'' mr. gore said. ''it is how reductions are made and how they interact with defensive systems that makes the difference.'' mr. gore, who became a specialist in arms control after he was elected to congress in the mid-1970's, said: ''reductions have to be carried out in a way that reduces the risk of confrontation. if you're not careful, you could have a reduction of missiles and a more dangerous world.'' mr. gore's remarks were unmistakably pointed in criticism of the bush speech, which called for a reduction -- possibly unilateral -- in american nuclear weapons combined with an expanded missile defense system. mr. bush has said he would pull out of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty if the russians did not agree to adjust it after ''a reasonable amount of time.'' mr. gore was invited to the academy in his capacity as vice president, and the speech was billed as an official vice presidential event, not a campaign appearance. as such, he told reporters on friday night, his remarks on the academy grounds would not be ''political'' in nature. ''i will not make a partisan remark,'' he said. but his comments today were mr. gore's first in public since mr. bush made his proposal on tuesday, and they were being written by the vice president and his longtime national security adviser, leon fuerth, as the vice presidential entourage flew to the hudson valley on friday night aboard air force two from a campaign appearance in memphis. after today's speech, mr. fuerth and louis caldera, the secretary of the army, who is a political appointee of the president, asserted that mr. gore's remarks today had not been political. mr. fuerth told reporters that the vice president's comments were based on his long-standing principles and the fact that president clinton was going to russia next week, and that they were not intended as a response to mr. bush. in mr. gore's discussion with reporters on friday night on air force two, he sharply criticized mr. bush's proposal. he said it would re-ignite the arms race, and by saying so, he seemed to ensure that his differences with mr. bush would be part of the news media's coverage today. today, at the graduation exercise, mr. gore outlined the clinton administration's efforts toward creating a national missile defense system that would protect all 50 states from a limited attack. ''we believe, however, that it is essential to do this in a way that does not destroy the anti-ballistic missile treaty,'' mr. gore said. ''the a.b.m. treaty is the cornerstone of strategic stability in our relationship with russia.'' what mr. bush proposed would almost surely entail violating the a.b.m. treaty of 1972. mr. bush said he wanted to reduce the size of the united states' nuclear arsenal to the ''lowest possible number consistent with our national security'' and below the levels called for under the start ii accord with russia. mr. gore also noted in his speech to the cadets that president clinton was headed for moscow next week. ''this is an historic meeting,'' he said. ''the president should leave with the full support of the american people,'' a subtle reminder to republicans that partisan differences over national security traditionally stop at the water's edge when the president travels abroad. mr. bush's speech on military preparedness, delivered in washington as he was flanked by foreign policy experts from four republican administrations, earned the governor widespread news media coverage on a topic on which the gore campaign has hoped mr. bush would appear inexperienced and politically vulnerable. gore advisers have believed that the vice president's expertise in international affairs, and particularly arms control, would give him an edge in november. while democrats had expected mr. bush to try to bolster his foreign policy credentials in the campaign, few expected the kind of speech that mr. bush delivered on tuesday. gov tom ridge of pennsylvania is high on list of likely running mates for gov george w bush despite fact that his abortion rights stand firmly defies republican party platform dogma; social conservative right is attacking ridge for being roman catholic who favors woman's right to choose abortion; bush-ridge ticket might deliver pennsylvania, fifth-largest state in electoral votes, to republicans; ridge has shown considerable crossover attraction among democratic voters in two elections; photo (m) the vietnam-fighting experience of the husky, 55-year-old pennsylvania governor comes in handy these days. he is being targeted by the social conservative right for being a roman catholic who unapologetically favors a woman's right to choose abortion, yet remains prominently featured on a list of potential running mates of gov. george w. bush of texas, the putative republican presidential nominee. but social and religious conservatives see things differently, and have issued stern warnings to mr. bush of dire consequences in november if he picks someone like mr. ridge. governor ridge, his abortion rights stand firmly defying party platform dogma, remains the most mentioned prospective running mate. he set a republican record for this heavily democratic state with a 780,000-vote victory margin in his 1998 re-election. a bush-ridge ticket might well deliver this critical battleground, the fifth-largest state in electoral votes, to the republicans. in two elections, mr. ridge has shown considerable crossover attraction among democratic voters. he has the power to garner up to 30 percent of them, according to polls -- a factor that mr. bush must weigh as he charts a centrist strategy. other republicans also note that mr. bush had to be more sensitive to the nation's large catholic vote after his controversial speech in the south carolina primary at bob jones university, a campus that critics denounce as anti-catholic. ''all this wonderful speculation,'' remarked governor ridge, his smile broad but fatalistic as he noted that the decision on a running mate was entirely mr. bush's to make after a long process involving ''a lot of other people,'' in the texas governor's words. only the november election, he said, with all the variables brought to the voters by the candidates and their campaigns, might settle the question of whether the republican party is ready for an abortion rights candidate on the ticket beside the anti-abortion mr. bush. ''but i don't think we're done with the very important struggle we're having within the party as to how to deal with it,'' he continued. ''certainly, my friend governor bush disagrees with me, and a majority of the delegates at the convention probably disagree with me. ''obviously, we're not going to change the platform. but it's interesting to note there are some people in the party who, instead of defeating al gore, would suggest that if the no. 2, whether me or somebody else, doesn't share their belief on abortion, they might abandon the party.'' ''tom ridge is a perfect fit for george bush,'' said state senator christine m. tartaglione, speaking in her role as the state democratic chairwoman. the governor's supporters quickly cite a raft of new social welfare and education laws to argue that he is the very model of the ''compassionate conservative'' that mr. bush has proclaimed as the cornerstone of his campaign. ''it's a heck of a ride,'' the governor added. ''i've already got a great job, and i'm going to help my old friend george bush get elected president. and you know? i think he can carry pennsylvania without me.'' american labor movement is badly divided on political strategy after last week's vote in favor of china trade bill, which labor opposed; some union leaders and democratic consultants say split could set back vice pres al gore's electoral chances as well as democratic hopes of regaining control of house of representatives; teamsters and united automobile workers, two of nation's most powerful unions, are so angry about trade bill they are showing little inclination to embrace gore, who backed bill, and they threaten to cancel endorsements of several house democrats who voted for it; john j sweeney, afl-cio president, is pushing labor federation's 68 member unions to line up behind gore and house democrats in general to increase their prospects in november; sweeney fears many of labor federation's 13 million members will sit out november elections because of china bill (m) the american labor movement is badly divided on political strategy after last week's vote in favor of the china trade bill, which labor opposed. and some union leaders and democratic consultants say this split could set back vice president al gore's electoral chances as well as democratic hopes of regaining control of the house of representatives. angry about the trade bill, two of the nation's most powerful unions -- the teamsters and the united automobile workers -- are showing little inclination to embrace mr. gore, who backed the bill, and have threatened to cancel endorsements of several house democrats who voted for it. the american labor movement is badly divided on political strategy after last week's vote in favor of the china trade bill, which labor opposed. and some union leaders and democratic consultants say this split could set back vice president al gore's electoral chances as well as democratic hopes of regaining control of the house of representatives. angry about the trade bill, two of the nation's most powerful unions -- the teamsters and the united automobile workers -- are showing little inclination to embrace mr. gore, who backed the bill, and have threatened to cancel endorsements of several house democrats who voted for it. but john j. sweeney, the a.f.l.-c.i.o.'s president, is pushing the labor federation's 68 member unions to line up behind mr. gore and house democrats in general to increase their prospects in november. nonetheless, mr. sweeney acknowledged that many of the labor federation's 13 million members may be so upset about the china bill that they will sit out the november elections, a development that could hurt mr. gore worst in the industrial swing states of the midwest. james p. hoffa, the teamsters' president, and stephen yokich, the u.a.w.'s president, said last week that mr. gore's support of the trade bill made it less likely that their unions would endorse him. mr. yokich has even suggested his union might endorse ralph nader, a prospect some political experts call unlikely. in contrast, mr. sweeney is pushing unions to back mr. gore and most democratic house candidates because in his view they are more likely to back labor on issues like social security and the minimum wage than are the republicans. david j. leland, chairman of the ohio democratic party, predicted that the china battle would not hurt his party this fall. ''obviously members of labor disagree with the vice president and some members of congress on this,'' he said. ''but over all, these union members understand that working families are better served by making sure that al gore is the next president.'' a rose bush jodi wilgoren gore faults bush plan on arms cuts and defense  vice president al gore, speaking at the united states military academy, criticized gov. george w. bush's support for a national missile defense system along with a possible one-sided reduction in american nuclear warheads. the chinese also fear that the united states could adjust and expand a limited defense, which in its first phase will consist of a battle-management radar site in alaska and 100 interceptors. and george w. bush, the republican candidate, has said the united states would develop a far more ambitious defensive system if he is elected president. during the bush administration, the pentagon instructed the trw corporation, an american military contractor, to develop ground-based interceptors that would stop ''limited attacks by china'' using css-4 missiles, according to a 1993 document prepared by the united states army. march 9, 1968, kien phong province, republic of vietnam: mr. jacobs's citation says that the first lieutenant, then 22, pulled 14 wounded men to safety during an ambush  (he is 5 feet 3 inches tall) and fought off and killed several viet cong soldiers as he conducted the rescue, even as blood from a head wound impaired his vision. for jack jacobs, 55, who had gotten his commission through the r.o.t.c. program at rutgers, thoughts about what he felt the day of the ambush are complicated. he was an advisor to a vietnamese army battalion, walking in a rice paddy in the mekong delta, when he heard the phhhht of a mortar. the disaster took place in the very middle of one of the busiest intersections in all of brooklyn -- the spot near the willink entrance to prospect park where malbone street, ocean avenue and flatbush avenue all intersect -- but the wrecked train and its passengers were wedged in a narrow tunnel under the intersection and were not in a readily accessible location. responding companies from the new york fire department who performed the bulk of the rescue work that evening were faced with a disaster that was as much a cave-in as a train wreck. letter from john guthrow says voters should be made aware that george w bush governs state, texas, that still allows teachers to paddle children in your may 21 front-page article about george w. bush's youth, john bizilo, mr. bush's elementary school principal, gives a nostalgic account of paddling the young george. the article leaves the impression that paddling last occurred in the 1950's. in your may 21 front-page article about george w. bush's youth, john bizilo, mr. bush's elementary school principal, gives a nostalgic account of paddling the young george. the article leaves the impression that paddling last occurred in the 1950's. the fact that george w. bush governs a state in which schoolchildren are still beaten every day is something that voters should be aware of. ms. frierson was born in flatbush, brooklyn, now lives in park slope, brooklyn, and has rented apartments in every borough in the city except for staten island. she clearly remembers the dark days when she was so unnerved by the city's sense of imminent danger that she often had her husband walk her to the store just to buy a tube of toothpaste. although she said that the killings in queens last week were ''despicable'' and proved ''how sick we've all become,'' she went on to make this admission: ''as bad as i feel for the people who were killed, i never think something like that could happen to me these days. it's like it's outside the realm of my world.'' excerpts from vice pres al gore's speech on missile defense and arms control at west point (m) following are excerpts from the prepared text of a speech about national security that vice president al gore delivered yesterday at the united states military academy at west point. following are excerpts from the prepared text of a speech about national security that vice president al gore delivered yesterday at the united states military academy at west point. ''i was as girl as a girl can be, with all the pretty dresses my mom made for me,'' she said. ''the next day i'd be running in camouflage, hiding in bushes, playing soldiers.'' roger cohen tribute to kurt schork, reuters correspondent killed in ambush in sierra leone; photo (m) mr. schork, 53, was killed on wednesday in an ambush in sierra leone. a dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in t-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through mr. schork's head. another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? mr. schork, 53, was killed on wednesday in an ambush in sierra leone. a dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in t-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through mr. schork's head. another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? the good news about education has become obvious: the quality of public schools is now on center stage in national politics. from george bush and al gore down to aspirants for state and local office, all politicians have embraced the cause of high standards and excellence. the bad news is that the remedy everyone but teachers and pupils wants to prescribe is more testing. the good news about education has become obvious: the quality of public schools is now on center stage in national politics. from george bush and al gore down to aspirants for state and local office, all politicians have embraced the cause of high standards and excellence. the bad news is that the remedy everyone but teachers and pupils wants to prescribe is more testing. maybe there is a lesson here for judging the gore and bush proposals for social security reform: look for the misperceptions. on companionship: ''like bushes without bees. lonely is worse than hungry.'' op-ed column by paul krugman says many of those offering plans to reform social security, including advisers to gov george w bush, insist that stocks are the answer, and that is it safe to assume that stocks will keep on yielding 7 percent forever; calls bush's arguments disingenuous (m) and yet many of those offering plans to reform social security -- among them, of course, advisers to george w. bush -- insist that stocks are the answer, and that it is safe to assume that stocks will keep on yielding 7 percent forever. and if you try to point out that buying a piece of corporate america is much more expensive than it used to be, they just repeat the mantra that stocks have historically been a great investment. in other words, that $100 bill was there yesterday, so it must still be there, right? is the odd susceptibility of first-rate economists to such a naive fallacy a triumph of wishful thinking over analysis, or a disingenuous bow to political expediency? recent remarks by mr. bush offer evidence of good old-fashioned american disingenuity at work. in a may 15 speech he asked his listeners to ''consider this simple fact: even if a worker chose only the safest investment in the world, an inflation-adjusted u.s. government bond, he or she would receive twice the rate of return of social security.'' that's an amazing fact; it's even more amazing when you realize that the social security system invests all its money in, you guessed it, u.s. government bonds. but the explanation -- which mr. bush's advisers understand very well, even if the governor does not -- is that today's workers are not only paying for their own retirement, but also supporting today's retirees. and if you think that's a minor detail -- that the question of how to meet existing obligations when workers are allowed to invest their contributions elsewhere is a side issue -- let me assure you that i too would have no trouble devising a painless plan to save social security, if you let me assume that a large part of the system's obligations would magically disappear. in addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic piazza del popolo, rome's recently reopened hotel de russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. in addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic piazza del popolo, rome's recently reopened hotel de russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. ''people have decided that traditional arms control is broken,'' said stephen hadley, a pentagon official in the bush administration and a campaign adviser to gov. george w. bush. ''we've been keeping a large inventory of nuclear weapons that we don't need and that the military doesn't want.'' governor bush said last week that as president he would reduce america's nuclear arsenal to its ''lowest possible number,'' perhaps unilaterally. ''our mutual security need no longer depend on a nuclear balance of terror,'' he declared. ''there's no longer this cataclysmic threat of a major war every day, so we have to put nuclear weapons into the background of international affairs,'' said mr. perkovich. to this end, the nuclear powers should drastically cut their arsenals and take arms off high alert, as mr. bush proposed last week. that would help curb atomic envy in india, pakistan and japan, said mr. perkovich, author of ''india's nuclear bomb'' (university of california, 1999). discovery may not always cater solely to the desire for enlightenment, as the ever-popular shark week demonstrates. now in its 14th year, this weeklong festival devoted to the carnivores doesn't shrink from gore. last wednesday, at the mci sports center in washington, the democratic party raised an astonishing $26.5 million at a dinner headlined by president clinton and vice president al gore and attended by about 12,000 loyal democrats, some paying a half-million dollars for the privilege. this staggering sum surpassed what until then had been the  record, the $21.3 million raised less than a month before by the republicans and george w. bush. last wednesday, at the mci sports center in washington, the democratic party raised an astonishing $26.5 million at a dinner headlined by president clinton and vice president al gore and attended by about 12,000 loyal democrats, some paying a half-million dollars for the privilege. this staggering sum surpassed what until then had been the  record, the $21.3 million raised less than a month before by the republicans and george w. bush. at one time or another, mr. clinton and mr. gore have decried soft money. even so, the soft money race proceeds at a torrid clip, without shame or remorse in either political party. as of last week, the two parties had raised at least $200 million in soft money, a record for this point in the election cycle, and they are well on their way to doubling the $260 million in soft money raised in 1996. meanwhile, individual contributions are reaching nosebleed altitudes when some dinner guests fork over $500,000. the polls say that the public wants reform, and in recent months dozens of corporations have decided to boycott what they see as little more than a shakedown operation. but for the most part the political leadership seems tone deaf. mr. bush would preserve the soft money loophole. at the democratic gala, mr. gore said that the next dinner four years from now would not cost nearly as much because as president he would bring ''meaningful'' change. but neither he nor mr. clinton seemed the least bit embarrassed about dipping into the trough one more time. Suburban Hatfields and McCoys commonly feud over boundary encroachments (a new driveway or fence that creeps over the property line), trees and bushes (which might block a neighbor's view or sunlight) and eyesores. This thoughtful work has the feel of a lifelong obsession. An Annapolis graduate, Dr. Perkins woke up to genuine leadership in Vietnam, a brutal and unforgettable academy.  At one point he found himself in command of a Marine convoy running a bloody gantlet along Route 1 from Chu Lai to Da Nang. Caught in a withering ambush, shaken and confused, he urged his column forward, concluding that the risk of crossing an open field of fire was better than sitting tight in the bull's-eye of the killing zone. (''A man sits as many risks as he runs,'' Dr. Perkins quotes Henry David Thoreau.) Pinch aster, chrysanthemum, sneezeweed (Helenium autumnale) and Sedum Autumn Joy every couple of weeks until July to maintain bushiness and produce more flowers. a rose bush March 9, 1968, Kien Phong Province, Republic of Vietnam: Mr. Jacobs's citation says that the first lieutenant, then 22, pulled 14 wounded men to safety during an ambush  (he is 5 feet 3 inches tall) and fought off and killed several Viet Cong soldiers as he conducted the rescue, even as blood from a head wound impaired his vision. For Jack Jacobs, 55, who had gotten his commission through the R.O.T.C. program at Rutgers, thoughts about what he felt the day of the ambush are complicated. He was an advisor to a Vietnamese Army battalion, walking in a rice paddy in the Mekong Delta, when he heard the phhhht of a mortar. The disaster took place in the very middle of one of the busiest intersections in all of Brooklyn -- the spot near the Willink Entrance to Prospect Park where Malbone Street, Ocean Avenue and Flatbush Avenue all intersect -- but the wrecked train and its passengers were wedged in a narrow tunnel under the intersection and were not in a readily accessible location. Responding companies from the New York Fire Department who performed the bulk of the rescue work that evening were faced with a disaster that was as much a cave-in as a train wreck. Ms. Frierson was born in Flatbush, Brooklyn, now lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and has rented apartments in every borough in the city except for Staten Island. She clearly remembers the dark days when she was so unnerved by the city's sense of imminent danger that she often had her husband walk her to the store just to buy a tube of toothpaste. Although she said that the killings in Queens last week were ''despicable'' and proved ''how sick we've all become,'' she went on to make this admission: ''As bad as I feel for the people who were killed, I never think something like that could happen to me these days. It's like it's outside the realm of my world.'' ''I was as girl as a girl can be, with all the pretty dresses my mom made for me,'' she said. ''The next day I'd be running in camouflage, hiding in bushes, playing soldiers.'' Roger Cohen tribute to Kurt Schork, Reuters correspondent killed in ambush in Sierra Leone; photo (M) Mr. Schork, 53, was killed on Wednesday in an ambush in Sierra Leone. A dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in T-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from Freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through Mr. Schork's head. Another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? Mr. Schork, 53, was killed on Wednesday in an ambush in Sierra Leone. A dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in T-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from Freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through Mr. Schork's head. Another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? On companionship: ''Like bushes without bees. Lonely is worse than hungry.'' In addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic Piazza del Popolo, Rome's recently reopened Hotel de Russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. In addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic Piazza del Popolo, Rome's recently reopened Hotel de Russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. Discovery may not always cater solely to the desire for enlightenment, as the ever-popular Shark Week demonstrates. Now in its 14th year, this weeklong festival devoted to the carnivores doesn't shrink from gore. Suburban Hatfields and McCoys commonly feud over boundary encroachments (a new driveway or fence that creeps over the property line), trees and bushes (which might block a neighbor's view or sunlight) and eyesores. This thoughtful work has the feel of a lifelong obsession. An Annapolis graduate, Dr. Perkins woke up to genuine leadership in Vietnam, a brutal and unforgettable academy.  At one point he found himself in command of a Marine convoy running a bloody gantlet along Route 1 from Chu Lai to Da Nang. Caught in a withering ambush, shaken and confused, he urged his column forward, concluding that the risk of crossing an open field of fire was better than sitting tight in the bull's-eye of the killing zone. (''A man sits as many risks as he runs,'' Dr. Perkins quotes Henry David Thoreau.) Pinch aster, chrysanthemum, sneezeweed (Helenium autumnale) and Sedum Autumn Joy every couple of weeks until July to maintain bushiness and produce more flowers. a rose bush March 9, 1968, Kien Phong Province, Republic of Vietnam: Mr. Jacobs's citation says that the first lieutenant, then 22, pulled 14 wounded men to safety during an ambush  (he is 5 feet 3 inches tall) and fought off and killed several Viet Cong soldiers as he conducted the rescue, even as blood from a head wound impaired his vision. For Jack Jacobs, 55, who had gotten his commission through the R.O.T.C. program at Rutgers, thoughts about what he felt the day of the ambush are complicated. He was an advisor to a Vietnamese Army battalion, walking in a rice paddy in the Mekong Delta, when he heard the phhhht of a mortar. The disaster took place in the very middle of one of the busiest intersections in all of Brooklyn -- the spot near the Willink Entrance to Prospect Park where Malbone Street, Ocean Avenue and Flatbush Avenue all intersect -- but the wrecked train and its passengers were wedged in a narrow tunnel under the intersection and were not in a readily accessible location. Responding companies from the New York Fire Department who performed the bulk of the rescue work that evening were faced with a disaster that was as much a cave-in as a train wreck. Ms. Frierson was born in Flatbush, Brooklyn, now lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and has rented apartments in every borough in the city except for Staten Island. She clearly remembers the dark days when she was so unnerved by the city's sense of imminent danger that she often had her husband walk her to the store just to buy a tube of toothpaste. Although she said that the killings in Queens last week were ''despicable'' and proved ''how sick we've all become,'' she went on to make this admission: ''As bad as I feel for the people who were killed, I never think something like that could happen to me these days. It's like it's outside the realm of my world.'' ''I was as girl as a girl can be, with all the pretty dresses my mom made for me,'' she said. ''The next day I'd be running in camouflage, hiding in bushes, playing soldiers.'' Roger Cohen tribute to Kurt Schork, Reuters correspondent killed in ambush in Sierra Leone; photo (M) Mr. Schork, 53, was killed on Wednesday in an ambush in Sierra Leone. A dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in T-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from Freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through Mr. Schork's head. Another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? Mr. Schork, 53, was killed on Wednesday in an ambush in Sierra Leone. A dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in T-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from Freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through Mr. Schork's head. Another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? On companionship: ''Like bushes without bees. Lonely is worse than hungry.'' In addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic Piazza del Popolo, Rome's recently reopened Hotel de Russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. In addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic Piazza del Popolo, Rome's recently reopened Hotel de Russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. Discovery may not always cater solely to the desire for enlightenment, as the ever-popular Shark Week demonstrates. Now in its 14th year, this weeklong festival devoted to the carnivores doesn't shrink from gore. Suburban Hatfields and McCoys commonly feud over boundary encroachments (a new driveway or fence that creeps over the property line), trees and bushes (which might block a neighbor's view or sunlight) and eyesores. This thoughtful work has the feel of a lifelong obsession. An Annapolis graduate, Dr. Perkins woke up to genuine leadership in Vietnam, a brutal and unforgettable academy.  At one point he found himself in command of a Marine convoy running a bloody gantlet along Route 1 from Chu Lai to Da Nang. Caught in a withering ambush, shaken and confused, he urged his column forward, concluding that the risk of crossing an open field of fire was better than sitting tight in the bull's-eye of the killing zone. (''A man sits as many risks as he runs,'' Dr. Perkins quotes Henry David Thoreau.) Pinch aster, chrysanthemum, sneezeweed (Helenium autumnale) and Sedum Autumn Joy every couple of weeks until July to maintain bushiness and produce more flowers. a rose bush March 9, 1968, Kien Phong Province, Republic of Vietnam: Mr. Jacobs's citation says that the first lieutenant, then 22, pulled 14 wounded men to safety during an ambush  (he is 5 feet 3 inches tall) and fought off and killed several Viet Cong soldiers as he conducted the rescue, even as blood from a head wound impaired his vision. For Jack Jacobs, 55, who had gotten his commission through the R.O.T.C. program at Rutgers, thoughts about what he felt the day of the ambush are complicated. He was an advisor to a Vietnamese Army battalion, walking in a rice paddy in the Mekong Delta, when he heard the phhhht of a mortar. The disaster took place in the very middle of one of the busiest intersections in all of Brooklyn -- the spot near the Willink Entrance to Prospect Park where Malbone Street, Ocean Avenue and Flatbush Avenue all intersect -- but the wrecked train and its passengers were wedged in a narrow tunnel under the intersection and were not in a readily accessible location. Responding companies from the New York Fire Department who performed the bulk of the rescue work that evening were faced with a disaster that was as much a cave-in as a train wreck. Ms. Frierson was born in Flatbush, Brooklyn, now lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and has rented apartments in every borough in the city except for Staten Island. She clearly remembers the dark days when she was so unnerved by the city's sense of imminent danger that she often had her husband walk her to the store just to buy a tube of toothpaste. Although she said that the killings in Queens last week were ''despicable'' and proved ''how sick we've all become,'' she went on to make this admission: ''As bad as I feel for the people who were killed, I never think something like that could happen to me these days. It's like it's outside the realm of my world.'' ''I was as girl as a girl can be, with all the pretty dresses my mom made for me,'' she said. ''The next day I'd be running in camouflage, hiding in bushes, playing soldiers.'' Roger Cohen tribute to Kurt Schork, Reuters correspondent killed in ambush in Sierra Leone; photo (M) Mr. Schork, 53, was killed on Wednesday in an ambush in Sierra Leone. A dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in T-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from Freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through Mr. Schork's head. Another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? Mr. Schork, 53, was killed on Wednesday in an ambush in Sierra Leone. A dispatch from his news agency described the scene: the armed men in T-shirts bursting out from behind a bank on a dusty road 50 miles from Freetown, the volley of automatic-rifle fire, a bullet through Mr. Schork's head. Another quick, senseless death of a foreign correspondent: what more is there to say? On companionship: ''Like bushes without bees. Lonely is worse than hungry.'' In addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic Piazza del Popolo, Rome's recently reopened Hotel de Russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. In addition to its opulent furnishings and enviable location just off the majestic Piazza del Popolo, Rome's recently reopened Hotel de Russie vaunts a special attraction for a hotel in the center of the city: a garden, three-quarters of an acre with towering palms, magnolias, orange trees, rosebushes, a small grotto and fountain. Discovery may not always cater solely to the desire for enlightenment, as the ever-popular Shark Week demonstrates. Now in its 14th year, this weeklong festival devoted to the carnivores doesn't shrink from gore.