 that, as far as i can make out, is what george w. bush is actually proposing -- though he has been more than vague about the details. he hasn't specified how much guaranteed benefits would be cut, let alone clearly stated that the percentage cut would have to be a lot larger than the share of contributions workers were freed to invest. (the plan described by senator daniel patrick moynihan on this page yesterday would in effect impose cuts on that scale, mainly through reduced cost-of-living adjustments and increased taxes on benefits.) what a politician can't honestly say is something like, ''even if a worker chose only the safest investment in the world, an inflation-adjusted u.s. government bond, he or she would receive twice the rate of return of social security'' -- as if that were a meaningful comparison, as if the obligations to today's older americans didn't have to be met. but that quote isn't made up -- it's what mr. bush actually said. all i can say is that he'd never be able to get away with it if al gore were still alive. vice pres al gore wades into one of nation's most contentious environmental debates, pledging to prohibit logging and road building on 43 million acres of undeveloped national forests if elected president; trumps recent proposal by clinton administration that would bar road building across same broad swath of roadless land in 155 national forests and grasslands that accounts for approximately quarter of entire forest system and includes many of its most pristine areas; addresses criticisms of clinton plan by environmentalists that it did not go far enough since it would still allow logging in undeveloped forests and explicitly exempted tongass national forest in alaska, nation's largest; gore strongly suggests he would extend same protections to tongass, where conservation efforts have been opposed by alaska's influential congressional delegation; he wins endorsement of league of conservation voters; photo (m) wading into one of the nation's most contentious environmental debates, vice president al gore pledged today to prohibit logging and road building on 43 million acres of undeveloped national forests. mr. gore's promise goes beyond a proposal the clinton administration made just three weeks ago that would bar road building across that same broad swath of roadless land in 155 national forests and grasslands. that land accounts for about a quarter of the entire forest system and includes many of its most pristine areas. wading into one of the nation's most contentious environmental debates, vice president al gore pledged today to prohibit logging and road building on 43 million acres of undeveloped national forests. mr. gore's promise goes beyond a proposal the clinton administration made just three weeks ago that would bar road building across that same broad swath of roadless land in 155 national forests and grasslands. that land accounts for about a quarter of the entire forest system and includes many of its most pristine areas. today, mr. gore addressed both complaints, saying he would bar logging as well as road building in the roadless areas. and he strongly suggested that he would extend the same protections to the tongass, where conservation efforts have been opposed by alaska's influential congressional delegation. ''if i am entrusted with the presidency, it will be a national priority to preserve these roadless areas as they are, no ifs, ands or buts about it,'' mr. gore said. ''no more destructive development and exploitation. and just so i'm crystal clear about it, no new road building and no timber sales in the roadless areas of our national forests. period.'' on the tongass, mr. gore added, ''i will ensure total and permanent protection for the roadless areas in the tongass, america's great temperate rain forest.'' ''his environmental achievements are the most extensive of any public official in high office,'' said deb callahan, president of the league. ''without al gore and this administration, we would already be experiencing a dramatic backward slide on the environment.'' beyond its new environmental promises, mr. gore's speech was notable for not mentioning gov. george w. bush of texas, his republican rival. the vice president has been criticized by some fellow democrats for spending too much time in recent weeks attacking mr. bush rather than explaining where he would lead the country. today's speech, mr. gore's aides said, was just the first of several in which he plans to focus on his own proposals and vision, rather than reacting to news that his opponent creates. the vice president has also begun devoting more of his speeches to spotlighting parts of his background, a strategy the democratic national committee plans to incorporate into a series of biographical television commercials in the coming weeks. but if mr. gore gave his republican opponent a pass today, ms. callahan, who worked on mr. gore's 1988 presidential campaign, did not. she asserted that mr. bush had done little to reduce air pollution or improve state parks in texas. and she accused mr. bush of pandering to big corporate polluters that have contributed generously to his campaigns. ''george w. bush's appointees to key cabinet and administrative positions predict an administration of, by and for the special interests,'' she said. dan bartlett, a spokesman for mr. bush, said mr. bush's administration had actually added nearly 91,000 acres to the state park system and had significantly reduced the release of toxic pollutants into the air, water and soil. ''when al gore chooses surrogates to pollute governor bush's record, he should choose ones that have their facts straight,'' mr. bartlett said. ''the new al gore is the same old al gore. the negative campaigning will continue.'' to counter the league's endorsement, the republican national committee circulated today copies of a memorandum written at least six months ago by a board member of the sierra club, one of the nation's largest and most influential environmental groups, that sharply criticized mr. gore's environmental record. ''with this legacy, no real environmentalist could ever endorse al gore,'' wrote michael dorsey, a doctoral candidate at the university of michigan school of natural resources and environment. but daniel j. weiss, the sierra club's political director, described the memorandum as ''one person's opinion,'' adding that it would have ''no impact'' on whether the group endorsed mr. gore. many environmentalists expect the sierra club to back mr. gore by the fall. indeed, the group has already spent $250,000 on television commercials attacking mr. bush's environmental record. the spots are being broadcast in michigan, missouri and wisconsin and will begin running in ohio this week. a third, smaller environmental group, friends of the earth, which endorsed bill bradley in the democratic primaries and has been sharply critical of mr. gore's record on global warming and trade issues, remains undecided in the race. a spokesman, mark whiteis-helm, said the group is considering endorsing ralph nader, the green party candidate, but has not ruled out backing mr. gore. in proposing new protections for the national forests, mr. gore stepped into an emerging national debate over development in some of the nation's wildest lands. forest service officials have said that simply banning road building would significantly reduce future logging in the roadless areas. but mr. gore sided today with environmentalists, who contend that unless logging is specifically prohibited, helicopter logging and other activities could damage the land. mr. gore did not consult with mr. clinton about today's speech, advisers to the vice president said. but aides to the two men did confer beforehand. in his speech today, mr. gore also pledged to prevent oil drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge in alaska. and he asserted that passing campaign finance reform legislation would be a form of environmental protection, because it would reduce the influence of big corporate polluters. mr. gore also defended his 1992 book on the environment, ''earth in the balance,'' which was recently reissued, much to the glee of some republicans who say it exposed mr. gore as an extremist on the issue. but today, mr. gore said: ''i am proud i wrote that book. i stand by every word in that book.'' it was the most overcaffeinated entry into a race since george bush announced dan quayle as his running mate in new orleans. little danny, another congressional pup itching for the sun, raced up and hugged the startled mr. bush, looking, for one terrifying moment, as if he were going to lick the older man's cheek. she called no one. juan calmed down. but the disquieting choice that ms. marquez, 26, faced that evening underscored a larger, complicated fact of family life in bushwick and other neighborhoods like it across the city. there, where the administration for children's services is regarded as a potent, ubiquitous presence, there is a real everyday fear that a momentary crisis can become something worse. that a parental mistake can lead to an investigation. or that in the nightmare case, a difficult child can be taken away. today, 20 out of every 1,000 children in bushwick are in the city's protective custody, a rate 10 times as high as it is in the upper east side of manhattan and seven times what it is in solidly middle-class bayside, queens, according to city figures. and in bushwick, there were 1,413 investigations of neglect or abuse complaints in 1998, the most recent year for which statistics are available, while there were only 109 on the upper east side. if the stakes are high for bushwick parents, so, too, are they for the city. the next flawed investigation could be the next high-profile tragedy, and the city, which has stepped up enforcement in recent years, has been alternately criticized for sometimes failing to spot children in grave danger and at other times for removing children far too rashly. parents in bushwick talk with dread about the possibility that missing eyeglasses or a broken arm could result in accusations of child abuse. some carry documents clearing them of child abuse charges in case they find themselves being questioned by a caseworker. they tell one another to always have a doctor's note for school absences. they warn their children about what can happen if they tell tall tales at school. historically, anywhere from two-thirds to three-quarters of the tens of thousands of reports of possible neglect or abuse investigated by the city's child welfare agency every year turn out to be unwarranted. and while parents in bushwick say vigilance in reporting concerns is a good thing, they feel they are living out every parenting move under suspicion. such suspicions and fear that abound in a neighborhood like bushwick do not make things easier for the agency's caseworkers. sitting along the brooklyn-queens border, bushwick is among the city's poorest neighborhoods. nine out of 10 children in the school district here live below the federal poverty line. a majority of residents are blacks and latinos, and growing numbers among them are newcomers from mexico and the dominican republic, with little or no ability to communicate in english. that, as ms. moore well remembers from her visits throughout brooklyn, can be a delicate balance. in more affluent communities, school officials and others who spot something suspicious are more likely to discuss it with the family before calling the government. in bushwick, she says, that may not always happen. for their part, administration for children's services officials point out that their investigations are naturally concentrated in neighborhoods where most of the complaints come from. at the top of the list are central and east harlem, a cluster of neighborhoods in the south bronx, bedford-stuyvesant and brownsville in brooklyn, followed by neighborhoods like jamaica, queens, the lower east side of manhattan and bushwick. for now, in bushwick, fear still runs high. parents speak of their encounters with the agency as though they were speaking of law enforcement. classes on how to be a good parent are referred to as probation, while a complaint filed with the child abuse register is likened to having a record that can haunt one later. that leeriness carries an additional danger. it can, says andrew friedman, a community organizer in bushwick, keep parents who may be in fact struggling with their children from turning to the very institution designed to help families in trouble -- the child welfare agency. ''it ends up being a menacing presence rather than a helpful presence in the rare instances where they're needed,'' said mr. friedman, co-director of make the road by walking, a storefront group that advocates on behalf of bushwick's poor. ''it's a power that's not on their side, that's distrustful of them.'' gore expands clinton plan for preserving forests  vice president al gore pledged to put 43 million acres of undeveloped national forests off limits to logging as well as road-building. and he strongly suggested that he would extend the same protections to the tongass, where conservation efforts have been opposed by alaska's influential congressional delegation. gov. george w. bush challenged mr. gore's fitness to serve as commander in chief, citing what he said was an erosion of might and morale under the clinton-gore administration. george w. bush -- albuquerque, n.m., phoenix, ariz.  al gore -- chevy chase, md., macon, ga. george w. bush -- albuquerque, n.m., phoenix, ariz.  al gore -- chevy chase, md., macon, ga. lilie-ruth storch. young israel of flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, ruth storch lilie. kenneth auman, rabbi mark goldstein, pres. lilie-ruth storch. young israel of flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, ruth storch lilie. kenneth auman, rabbi mark goldstein, pres. laurel e federbush letter replies to glenn c loury's may 29 op-ed article arguing against payment of reparations to the descendants of slaves laurel e. federbush  ann arbor, mich., may 29, 2000 green pastures  some are lush and others are arid, but all of the stops on gov. george w. bush's four-day trek through the west will prove fertile -- with money. mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, reaped an estimated $100,000 for his campaign at a luncheon in denver on tuesday and was expected to raise $300,000 for the republican national committee and $125,000 for the state republican party in new mexico at a reception in albuquerque on tuesday night. by week's end, after visits to arizona and nevada as well, mr. bush should collect $350,000 for his campaign, $200,000 for state republican organizations and about $2 million for the national committee, campaign officials said. they said mr. bush would raise $1.3 million in regulated ''hard money'' for the committee and at least several hundred thousand dollars in largely unregulated ''soft money.'' green pastures  some are lush and others are arid, but all of the stops on gov. george w. bush's four-day trek through the west will prove fertile -- with money. mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, reaped an estimated $100,000 for his campaign at a luncheon in denver on tuesday and was expected to raise $300,000 for the republican national committee and $125,000 for the state republican party in new mexico at a reception in albuquerque on tuesday night. by week's end, after visits to arizona and nevada as well, mr. bush should collect $350,000 for his campaign, $200,000 for state republican organizations and about $2 million for the national committee, campaign officials said. they said mr. bush would raise $1.3 million in regulated ''hard money'' for the committee and at least several hundred thousand dollars in largely unregulated ''soft money.'' ad advisory  gov. george w. bush is turning to an executive of one of the nation's best-known advertising agency, young & rubicam, for creative suggestions on television commercials. jim ferguson, the advertising agency's chief creative officer, has accepted an unpaid, advisory role in the campaign, said stuart stevens, a republican consultant and a member of maverick media, the advertising arm of the bush campaign. ''we have tremendous respect for what these guys do, and there are skills they have that are almost uniquely suited to a presidential campaign,'' mr. stevens said. mr. ferguson will assemble an informal group of people in new york who may be asked to help write mr. bush's television commercials, mr. stevens said. mr. ferguson, through an assistant, declined to comment. praise from mccain  gov. george w. bush's recent statements on arms-control policy, missile defense and trade with china have drawn hearty praise from senator john mccain, republican of arizona. in an op-ed article in tuesday's wall street journal, mr. mccain applauded mr. bush for embracing internationalist positions that benefit america's interests. now if only more republicans in congress would follow mr. bush's lead, mr. mccain lamented, citing the senate's vote to reject setting a deadline to withdraw  ground troops from kosovo. only 15 senate republicans, including mr. mccain, backed the measure. ''they contacted my representatives, but i'm under contract,'' long said. he said he would have difficulty leaving fox ''even if there were an out in my contract'' because of loyalty to the sports division's top executives, david hill and ed goren. ''i know where the rudder is in my shop,'' he said. '' 'monday night' is a tremendous stage, but i don't know where it's going.'' ''show me a negotiation where anybody pays less, and we'll have a headline,'' said ed goren, the president of fox sports. in his view, espn is paying so much because its previous deal was undervalued. republican presidential candidate gov george w bush challenges vice pres al gore's fitness to serve as commander in chief of armed forces, saying there has been erosion of military's might and morale during clinton-gore administration; uses appearance before veterans of foreign wars in denver to criticize problems with military, to restate commitment to making necessary improvements and to question whether voters should have much confidence in gore's capacity for leadership on issue; photo (m) gov. george w. bush challenged vice president al gore's fitness to serve as commander in chief of the armed forces today, saying an erosion of the military's might and morale during the clinton-gore administration was the reason ''for a new sign on the pentagon that says 'under new management.' '' mr. bush used an appearance here at the veterans of foreign wars post no. 1, the organization's oldest, to recite a laundry list of current problems with the military, restate his commitment to making necessary improvements and question whether voters should have much confidence in mr. gore's capacity for leadership on the issue. gov. george w. bush challenged vice president al gore's fitness to serve as commander in chief of the armed forces today, saying an erosion of the military's might and morale during the clinton-gore administration was the reason ''for a new sign on the pentagon that says 'under new management.' '' mr. bush used an appearance here at the veterans of foreign wars post no. 1, the organization's oldest, to recite a laundry list of current problems with the military, restate his commitment to making necessary improvements and question whether voters should have much confidence in mr. gore's capacity for leadership on the issue. ''my opponent -- who's no stranger to exaggeration, i might add --  boasts on his web site that he has been intimately involved in the best-managed build-down in american military history,'' mr. bush said, an unmistakable sprinkling of sarcasm in his voice. ''al gore claims that qualifies him for a promotion,'' mr. bush continued. but, he said, ''the clinton-gore record cries out for a new sign on the pentagon that says 'under new management.' '' mr. bush's pointed remarks represented an effort by the texas governor to turn the tables on mr. gore and blunt the questions that mr. gore and other administration officials have raised about how well mr. bush is prepared to manage the country's military and foreign affairs. political analysts have long considered mr. bush's inexperience on the global stage, along with several gaffes that underscored it, to be a significant potential weak spot in his candidacy. over the last week, both mr. gore and defense secretary william s. cohen have expressed particular concern over mr. bush's proposal for the research and development of a missile defense system vaster than the one being considered by the clinton administration. mr. cohen, a republican, warned that it could lead to an arms buildup by other countries, and, in an appearance on a sunday television news program, he even invited mr. bush in for a briefing by defense department officials. mr. bush, making his first public comments on the matter today, implied that he would not be r.s.v.p.-ing anytime soon. ''i found the comments to be political in nature,'' mr. bush said at a news conference here after his speech at the veterans' post. he said  he had been amply informed and advised by his own team of foreign policy and defense experts. ''i think the briefing i got from colin powell and dick cheney and henry kissinger was substantial,'' mr. bush said. ''i've got one of the finest foreign policy teams ever assembled, and i call upon my opponent not to allow members of the administration to politicize matters of defense.'' mr. bush made no acknowledgment today that some military cutbacks began before the clinton administration, when mr. bush's father was president. douglas hattaway, a spokesman for mr. gore, said that low military pay was a problem then, too and that there were about 19,400 service people on food stamps in 1991, in president george bush's administration. mr. hattaway noted that the vice president had made his own set of proposals for strengthening the military and increasing spending on defense, particularly for higher pay for enlisted men and women. and mr. hattaway questioned whether mr. bush was the right person to be raising concerns about military preparedness. during a telephone conference call with reporters that was arranged by the democratic national committee, former secretary of veterans affairs jesse brown made those criticisms even more personal, questioning the nature of mr. bush's military service in the vietnam war. mr. bush did not serve overseas but instead served in houston in the texas air national guard. mr. gore went to vietnam as an army journalist. mr. bush's complaint with the health of the country's armed forces was not new, but he rendered it in especially strong terms today. mr. bush has said he would call for an extra $1 billion a year over what congress had already agreed to pay in salary increases for men and women serving in the military. that is one of several ways in which he would spend more on national defense, which he says is currently being shortchanged. ''defense spending as a percentage of the gross national product is the lowest it has been since prior to pearl harbor,'' mr. bush said today as he presented a litany of facts and figures to portray a military in alarming decline. ''united states air force readiness for combat has fallen to its lowest level in 15 years.'' ''before we commit troops, there has to be a clear strategy,'' mr. bush said, citing bosnia and haiti as two examples of places where that was arguably not the case. on another nbc outlet, msnbc, george w. bush will sit down for an interview with chris matthews on his ''hardball'' program tomorrow night at 7. this interview will be conducted live, from a restaurant named el pinto in albuquerque. mr. matthews said he planned to emphasize education, social security, missile defense, possible running mates and mr. bush's campaign strategy against al gore. LILIE-Ruth Storch. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Ruth Storch Lilie. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. LILIE-Ruth Storch. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Ruth Storch Lilie. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. Laurel E Federbush letter replies to Glenn C Loury's May 29 Op-Ed article arguing against payment of reparations to the descendants of slaves LILIE-Ruth Storch. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Ruth Storch Lilie. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. LILIE-Ruth Storch. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Ruth Storch Lilie. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. Laurel E Federbush letter replies to Glenn C Loury's May 29 Op-Ed article arguing against payment of reparations to the descendants of slaves LILIE-Ruth Storch. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Ruth Storch Lilie. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. LILIE-Ruth Storch. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Ruth Storch Lilie. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. Laurel E Federbush letter replies to Glenn C Loury's May 29 Op-Ed article arguing against payment of reparations to the descendants of slaves