 many of the republicans who hold a majority in the state senate are seen as vulnerable this year, and they see the united states senate race as being crucial to their chances in november. george w. bush, the republican presidential nominee, is not expected to carry new york, so republican lawmakers want a strong senate candidate near the top of the ticket. editorial observes that while social security has emerged as critical issue in this year's presidential campaign neither candidate seems prepared to address system's long-term financial problems; explains projected financial imbalance and remedies proposed by george w bush and al gore social security has emerged as a critical issue in this year's presidential campaign, but neither candidate seems prepared to address the system's long-term financial problems. instead, gov. george w. bush wants to let individuals invest a small part of their social security contributions in the stock market, where he thinks they will earn a better return, and vice president al gore proposes to keep the system largely intact with an infusion of general tax revenues. neither proposal would really stabilize the system in the long run. in truth, though social security is projected to become bankrupt in four decades, the system is not all that far out of kilter. it would not be hard for bold politicians to devise a fix. social security may well be, as governor bush has said, ''the single most successful government program in american history.'' it was created in 1935, during the depths of the depression, to provide a guaranteed income to retired workers for as long as they live. unlike private pension plans, social security benefits keep pace with inflation and, unlike 401(k)'s and other popular private plans, social security benefits do not fluctuate with stock and bond markets. social security provides the majority of income for most retirees and all the income for about a fifth of the elderly. social security has emerged as a critical issue in this year's presidential campaign, but neither candidate seems prepared to address the system's long-term financial problems. instead, gov. george w. bush wants to let individuals invest a small part of their social security contributions in the stock market, where he thinks they will earn a better return, and vice president al gore proposes to keep the system largely intact with an infusion of general tax revenues. neither proposal would really stabilize the system in the long run. in truth, though social security is projected to become bankrupt in four decades, the system is not all that far out of kilter. it would not be hard for bold politicians to devise a fix. social security may well be, as governor bush has said, ''the single most successful government program in american history.'' it was created in 1935, during the depths of the depression, to provide a guaranteed income to retired workers for as long as they live. unlike private pension plans, social security benefits keep pace with inflation and, unlike 401(k)'s and other popular private plans, social security benefits do not fluctuate with stock and bond markets. social security provides the majority of income for most retirees and all the income for about a fifth of the elderly. one proposed remedy for financial imbalance is partial privatization, the approach favored  by governor bush. under current law, workers  and employers pay a 12.4 percent payroll tax that goes into a public trust fund. under partial privatization, workers could divert, say, two percentage points of that tax to private accounts that the worker could then invest in stocks and bonds. workers would collect less money from the trust fund when they retired, alleviating financial strain on  the system. but they would expect to more than make up for the loss by drawing from their private accounts. mr. bush's sketchy proposal fails to answer where he would find the money to pay retirees as payroll taxes were diverted into private accounts. but there are other fundamental problems with the proposal as well. mr. bush cites as an advantage that private accounts can be invested in stocks whereas the trust fund by law cannot. but if the law were changed to let the trust fund itself purchase stocks, as president clinton has proposed, it could invest in the markets far more cheaply than could private accounts. the cost of administering 150 million individual private accounts would be huge, eating away 20 percent or more of worker deposits. private accounts could also subject individuals, including the poor, to unacceptable investment risk at the most vulnerable time in their lives. worse, they undermine the principle of social insurance, setting individuals off to fend for themselves without looking out for the needy. vice president al gore proposes to leave the basic system unchanged and would use general revenues to extend the life of the trust fund to about 2050. he ducks proposing tax hikes or benefit cuts that would be needed to solve the system's problems after that date. indeed, he does the opposite by proposing new benefits for stay-at-home mothers and for widows and widowers, thereby increasing the financial strain on the system. these two ideas, remembrance and reconciliation, will surely survive in the century ahead. but there may be subtle changes in the spirit if not the essential purposes of the holiday, just as there have been changes in the demography of the marchers. it has been many years since old men in threadbare gray and blue uniforms paraded down the nation's main streets. it has been 20 years at least since we saw more than a few veterans of world war i. now the cohort that fought world war ii is diminishing. george bush, senior, is almost certainly that celebrated generation's last president. these two ideas, remembrance and reconciliation, will surely survive in the century ahead. but there may be subtle changes in the spirit if not the essential purposes of the holiday, just as there have been changes in the demography of the marchers. it has been many years since old men in threadbare gray and blue uniforms paraded down the nation's main streets. it has been 20 years at least since we saw more than a few veterans of world war i. now the cohort that fought world war ii is diminishing. george bush, senior, is almost certainly that celebrated generation's last president. our cultural memory is also receding, especially the recollection of what it was like to have an entire country mobilized, body and soul, to fight an enemy. the first and second world wars were, to most americans, unambiguously noble, and so in its goals of eliminating slavery and saving the union was the civil war. but since then our conflicts have become less clear-cut -- most famously vietnam, but also to some extent korea and even mr. bush's desert storm. defense sec william cohen invites george w bush and his national security advisers to pentagon for briefing on state of us strategic nuclear arsenal; cohen has criticized bush's campaign pledge to reduce number of us warheads; photo (m) secretary of defense william s. cohen today invited gov. george w. bush of texas and his national security advisers to the pentagon for a briefing on the state of the nation's strategic nuclear arsenal after criticizing mr. bush's recent pledge to reduce the number of american nuclear warheads. mr. bush's campaign aides responded by pointing to the military credentials of his advisers and suggesting that the campaign of vice president al gore was playing politics with the joint chiefs of staff. secretary of defense william s. cohen today invited gov. george w. bush of texas and his national security advisers to the pentagon for a briefing on the state of the nation's strategic nuclear arsenal after criticizing mr. bush's recent pledge to reduce the number of american nuclear warheads. mr. bush's campaign aides responded by pointing to the military credentials of his advisers and suggesting that the campaign of vice president al gore was playing politics with the joint chiefs of staff. mr. cohen extended the invitation after mr. bush proposed last week to consider making unilateral reductions in nuclear weapons, possibly deeper than those now being negotiated between the united states and russia. mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, also pledged to construct a far larger antiballistic missile defense than the one now contemplated by the clinton administration. mr. cohen, appearing today on nbc's ''meet the press,'' said mr. bush's proposals contained ''internal inconsistencies.'' building a larger missile defense than the administration's limited one, mr. cohen added, would force the russians and other nations, like china, to increase their own offensive nuclear arsenals, making negotiated reductions far less likely. mr. cohen's objections echoed those mr. gore made during his commencement address at the united states military academy on saturday, when he said mr. bush's proposals were harmful to arms control and threatening to global stability. he said he would invite mr. bush to meet with members of the joint chiefs of staff and adm. richard w. mies, commander of the american nuclear arsenal, as a matter of fairness in the presidential campaign. ''i think that he and then vice president gore will be in a better position to debate this in a way that's responsible and, i think, informed,'' he said. mindy tucker, the bush campaign's press secretary, said in response to mr. cohen's proposal, referring to two key bush advisers: ''surely secretary cohen is not suggesting that defense secretary dick cheney and general colin powell, who led our defenses, don't understand them. and we are confident that the joint chiefs of staff would welcome governor bush's proposal because it allows military planners to determine the appropriate levels of security based on new guidance and a new security era.'' ''we would hope that al gore would call on his administration not to play politics with these briefings or the joint chiefs of staff,'' ms. tucker said. pentagon officials said the invitation to mr. bush was mr. cohen's idea. while it is common for a president-elect to receive high-level national security briefings as part of the transition to the white house, it is unusual to extend such an early invitation to a presidential candidate from the party out of power, especially one who has not yet received his party's formal nomination. in light of mr. cohen's criticism, the invitation could be seen as a suggestion that mr. bush's ideas are ill-formed. at the same time, having mr. bush discuss nuclear strategy with senior commanders could lend weight to the governor's handling of military issues in the campaign. pentagon officials said they had not yet made arrangements for a briefing. one potentially knotty problem could be the degree of secrecy concerning nuclear weapons. since mr. bush does not have a security clearance, his briefing might be limited to unclassified information. in his proposal last week, mr. bush did not say he would reduce the number of nuclear weapons automatically. instead, he said he would consider reductions based on recommendations by the pentagon's military commanders. last tuesday, even as mr. bush made his proposals, those commanders appeared on capitol hill and said they would oppose reducing the number of warheads below the 2,000 to 2,500 being negotiated under the third strategic arms reduction treaty, or start 3. briefing bush on security  secretary of defense william s. cohen, left, invited gov. george w. bush and his national security advisers to the pentagon for a briefing on the nation's strategic nuclear arsenal after criticizing mr. bush's recent pledge to reduce the number of american nuclear warheads. steve a ludsin letter says may 22 article about al gore's boyhood reassured him about vice president's character (s) your may 22 front-page article ''a boy's life in and out of the family script'' reassured me about vice president al gore's character. his mother and father may have been ambitious up-from-nothing parents, but it's where you finish, rather than where you start, that matters. is there anything more american than wanting a better life for your children? your may 22 front-page article ''a boy's life in and out of the family script'' reassured me about vice president al gore's character. his mother and father may have been ambitious up-from-nothing parents, but it's where you finish, rather than where you start, that matters. is there anything more american than wanting a better life for your children? ideally, all of our parents teach us formality and dignity, and if we're lucky we know the appropriate time to invoke them. it's reassuring to know that vice president gore's childhood included pranks. it sounds as if he spent his formative years in the same way many of us did: trying to remain a child while meeting the expectations of our parents.