 during my years in public office, one issue i got the most mail about was my hair, with questions like, ''how do you wear your hair when you're dressed up?'' i was urged to dye my hair, and people even enclosed checks to pay for a makeover. in no audience i've ever spoken to have i found a man who sent al gore a check for rogaine or asked newt gingrich to get a haircut. i would have hoped that we could have erased such differences by the dawn of the 21st century. but now, it seems, the only way to imagine a woman in the white house is to put barbie there. i'm sorry, but i just can't get enthusiastic. i can see my hero, eleanor roosevelt, sitting in heaven, shaking her head and saying, ''they still don't get it!'' republican presidential candidate gov george w bush will push for fundamental overhaul of social security, reopening issue that could be among most combustible and bitterly debated of presidential campaign; will reportedly press for establishment of individual investment accounts within social security, change that would be most far-reaching to program since establishment during great depression; reportedly believes accounts which would allow workers to invest portion of social security payroll taxes in stock and bond markets should be essential component of any plan to ensure retirement system's long-term viability; private accounts would allow workers to capture some of historically high returns offered by wall street over long run, reducing need to close looming shortfall in system's finances through benefit cuts or higher taxes; most democrats, including vice pres al gore, regard creating individual investment accounts is tantamount to abandoning program's role as provider of guaranteed benefit for elderly; gore campaign will portray approach as too risky for many individuals since it would leave retirement security to ups and downs of stock market (m) gov. george w. bush plans to push soon for a fundamental overhaul of social security, reopening an issue that could be among the most combustible and bitterly debated of the presidential campaign. in the next month, his aides said, mr. bush intends to begin pressing his case for the establishment of individual investment accounts within social security, a change that would be the most far-reaching to the program since it was established during the depression. gov. george w. bush plans to push soon for a fundamental overhaul of social security, reopening an issue that could be among the most combustible and bitterly debated of the presidential campaign. in the next month, his aides said, mr. bush intends to begin pressing his case for the establishment of individual investment accounts within social security, a change that would be the most far-reaching to the program since it was established during the depression. mr. bush believes that the accounts, which would allow workers to invest a portion of their social security payroll taxes in the stock and bond markets, are an essential component of any plan to ensure the retirement system's long-term viability, his advisers said. private accounts would allow workers to capture some of the historically high returns offered by wall street over the long run, thereby reducing the need to close a looming shortfall in social security's finances through benefit cuts or higher taxes, mr. bush's aides said. ''people have an understanding of how markets work, and are used to securing a higher return on their savings,'' said one adviser to mr. bush. ''the debate on social security will be joined in a way that we believe will be open to new ideas.'' yet to most democrats, including vice president al gore, creating individual investment accounts is tantamount to abandoning social security's role as the provider of a guaranteed benefit for the elderly. mr. gore's aides said they would portray mr. bush's approach as too risky for many individuals because it would leave their retirement security exposed to the ups and downs of the stock market. they expect that argument to have particular resonance if wall street remains as volatile as it has been in recent months. mr. gore's team also intends to make a case that establishing personal accounts would have a huge economic cost because it would require using the portion of the projected federal budget surplus that would otherwise go to reducing and eventually eliminating the $3.5 trillion in national debt held by the public. mr. gore has made eliminating the public debt the centerpiece of his economic agenda, saying that to do so would push interest rates down and give the entire economy a boost. the vice president backs a plan that would leave social security intact but would extend its solvency to 2050 by allocating interest savings from the reduction in the national debt to the retirement system. ''one of the reasons social security has been so successful is that it's a social compact between generations, one generation taking care of the next generation,'' said chris lehane, mr. gore's spokesman. ''to play around with privatizing it, when in fact there's no need to privatize it, will only lead to bad results.'' mr. bush plans to give a major speech on social security sometime in may, and to press the issue from then on, his aides said. he will not offer a detailed plan, but rather will commit himself to a set of principles that he would use as the basis for bipartisan negotiations if he was elected president. those principles start with the establishment of private accounts. mr. bush will probably not specify what portion of a worker's payroll taxes could go into the accounts, but he is leaning toward making participation in the accounts voluntary, his advisers said. under this approach, a portion of the retirement benefit would be guaranteed and a portion would fluctuate with the performance of the investment account. as the system stands now, payroll taxes on today's workers go to pay benefits for current retirees. mr. bush's plan would start shifting social security toward a system in which each worker saved something for his or her own retirement. ''the key is going to be augmenting the current pay-as-you-go system with a prefunded system based on personal accounts,'' said lawrence b. lindsey, the bush campaign's chief economic adviser. mr. bush will also pledge not to increase payroll taxes, and not to reduce benefits for anyone in or nearing retirement. he has left open whether the retirement age, which is already rising gradually to 67 from 65, might eventually need to be increased again. most of the privatization proposals put on the table in the last few years envision about two percentage points of the 12.4 percent payroll tax paid by each worker being channeled into individual accounts. privately, mr. bush's aides say they envision a plan of roughly the same scale. under mr. gore's plan, all of the social security surplus would go to reducing the national debt held by the public. mr. bush's approach would almost certainly have to forgo large-scale reduction in the public debt. but because mr. bush's plan would give workers their own retirement accounts, it would decrease the government's long-term obligation to pay benefits out of tax revenues, which is another form of debt reduction. those states, and other crucial battlegrounds like florida, have high proportions of older voters, who in the past could have been counted on to react strongly against any major changes to social security. democrats remain confident that mr. bush's proposal will help drive older voters to mr. gore, but republican strategists said that assumption might prove outdated. ''the question that this election cycle will test,'' said one adviser to mr. bush, ''is whether times have changed enough through the emergence of a new investor class, and through the recognition that social security is going broke, that new solutions can be found.'' the adviser said that neither party could be sure of the answer. still, the issue is likely to help democrats mobilize their traditional constituencies. in particular, democrats said any push by mr. bush to privatize social security would be met by stiff resistance from labor unions. as magazines sometimes do, george set a different cover on the issue sent to subscribers. the cover article -- ''will the biggest liar win?'' -- argues that al gore and george w. bush have distorted the truth and is not likely to land the magazine on ''60 minutes.'' here's evidence that we're getting traction: president clinton and vice president al gore have detected the growing political appeal of personal privacy in a time of data rape. to a commencement audience yesterday, clinton unveiled his plan to repel the invaders, challenging the republican congress to get on with legislation to stem the tide of snooping. up to now, the clinton-gore record has been troubling to civil libertarians; under the rubric of searching for ''deadbeat dads,'' this administration now forces private employers to inform on workers to federal bureaucrats as never before. but clinton's belated concern about penetrations of our privacy by marketers and e-snoops, often in support of legislation already in work, is welcome. what about sharing financial data having nothing to do with medical records? here the clinton-gore plan caves in to the secret salesmen. ''we will preserve financial firms' ability to share the information that they need,'' goes the administration proposal, ''to develop new products and manage their risks . . .'' no bank is required to obtain depositor's consent; it's up to the individual to ''opt out'' -- to take the difficult initiative of demanding that the bank not make his life an open book. crowd estimated in hundreds of thousands rallies in nation's capital in celebration of gains of gay rights movement in recent years and vows redoubled efforts on issues like hate crime legislation; is addressed by pres clinton and vice pres al gore via videotape; photos (m) there was a strong political subtext to the day. elizabeth birch, executive director of the human rights campaign, the nation's largest gay and lesbian organization, told the audience, ''we must elect al gore as president of the united states,'' arguing that ''the very future of the u.s. supreme court for the next generation hangs in the balance.'' ms. birch said of gov. george w. bush's position on gay rights issues: ''there is absolutely nothing about these policies that is compassionate.'' vice president gore, addressing the group by videotape beamed on a huge screen above the mall, declared, ''i stand with you, and am with you every step of the way'' in the march for civil rights. mr. gore said he would not rest in the fight against aids and in the struggle to protect gay americans from employment discrimination and to ensure that ''crimes of hate against all people, including gays and lesbians,'' are severely punished. the most incongruous sight of the jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: bill parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. the most incongruous sight of the jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: bill parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. excerpts from vice pres al gore's foreign policy address in boston (m) following are excerpts from remarks prepared for delivery yesterday by vice president al gore to the international press institute in boston, as provided by the gore campaign: following are excerpts from remarks prepared for delivery yesterday by vice president al gore to the international press institute in boston, as provided by the gore campaign: from what we can tell of his foreign policy, governor bush does not prepare us to meet the grand challenges of both the classic and new security agendas. . . . governor bush dangerously fixates on the cold war past when speaking of the use of force. he suggests that he would not intervene to relieve even the brutal repression of ethnic cleansing and genocide. no wonder it took him six weeks to say anything about our action against the ethnic cleansing in kosovo. is that the right message for america to send to people around the globe struggling for freedom? stuck in a cold war mindset, governor bush continues to view russia and china primarily as present or future enemies. while we must remain vigilant against any deterioration in our relationships, the reality of the global age is that russia and china are indeed competitors, but also vital partners in our efforts to tackle problems menacing to us all. just this past week, governor bush used his brief meeting with russian foreign minister ivanov to issue a warning that his intention would be to build and deploy a global star wars system that he believes could defend the u.s. and all our allies against any missile launch from any source. in the 1990's, most serious analysts took a look at the implausibility of this endeavor, the fantastical price that our taxpayers would be expected to pay, and the dangerously destabilizing consequences of traveling down that path and rejected this notion. governor bush wishes to return to it, and chose the worst possible venue in which to launch -- for lack of a better phrase -- his risky foreign policy scheme. . . . when it comes to the challenges of the new security agenda, governor bush's foreign policy is noticeably blank. although africa represents a vast untapped market, has major health and environmental concerns that directly impact us, and the reaches of modern terrorism took american lives in two of our embassies on that continent, governor bush said that africa ''doesn't fit into the national strategic interests.'' is that a responsible assessment of our national interest? one has to assume that these gaps in governor bush's foreign policy views and experience will be filled by the ideologies and inveterate antipathies of his party -- the right-wing, partisan isolationism of the republican congressional leadership. since 1994, the republicans in congress have recklessly tossed aside decades of bipartisan cooperation on foreign policy. governor bush joined with the isolationist, partisan republican majority in congress in opposing the comprehensive test ban treaty. he chose politics over principle. . . . mr. lott is reportedly offering a half-dozen federal judges for approval by the senate in return for democratic cooperation on mr. smith. mr. lott regards the offer as magnanimous. it is in fact insulting. for several years, he and other republicans have thrown up one road block after another to president clinton's judicial appointments -- a partisan debasing of the honored principle under which the senate advises and consents on presidential nominations. this year he has allowed confirmation of only seven judges. when the tables were turned in 1992, also a hotly contested election year, a democratic-controlled senate was serious enough about its responsibilities to approve 66 judges nominated by president george bush, a republican. as dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the delrakhim synagogue. as dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the delrakhim synagogue. forget hillary and rudy. never mind george w. and al gore. for political insiders from here to albany, the race to watch right now is a special election for a seat on the nassau county legislature. forget hillary and rudy. never mind george w. and al gore. for political insiders from here to albany, the race to watch right now is a special election for a seat on the nassau county legislature. bush to press case for social security change  gov. george w. bush intends to begin pressing his case for the establishment of individual investment accounts within social security, a change that would be the most far-reaching to the program since it was established in the depression. gore attacks bush  vice president al gore, in a major foreign policy speech in boston, attacked gov. george w. bush in a classic incumbent strategy, one made especially classic by governor bush's father, then the vice president, against another sitting governor in 1988. bush camp fires back  the top foreign policy adviser of gov. george w. bush, in response to the gore speech, said that vice president al gore had misrepresented mr. bush's views on how to deal with russia and china and had taken ''a series of positions that are at complete odds with how he has acted for the past seven years.'' bob herbert op-ed column on recent 'untoward comments' by texas health commissioner dr william r archer iii about hispanics and teen pregnancy that may have been embarrassment to gov george w bush, who appointed archer the remarks proved embarrassing to gov. george w. bush, who has been running from one photo-op to another, posing relentlessly with black and brown children and teenagers, trying to show that he and his party are not the mortal enemies of ethnic minorities. the remarks proved embarrassing to gov. george w. bush, who has been running from one photo-op to another, posing relentlessly with black and brown children and teenagers, trying to show that he and his party are not the mortal enemies of ethnic minorities. (the governor's task is not an easy one when you consider that ronald reagan chose to kick off his 1980 general election campaign in philadelphia, miss., which is where the civil rights workers andrew goodman, michael schwerner and james chaney were murdered, and that the governor's own father, george herbert walker bush, pumped up his win over michael dukakis in the 1988 presidential race with the loathsome willie horton ads.) which might have been fine except for the fact that dr. archer, a gynecologist, has said so much crazy stuff in the past. in the early 1990's, dr. archer was a deputy assistant secretary at the u.s. department of health and human services, where he served as the bush administration's point person on the so-called gag rule, the regulation that barred doctors at federally financed family planning clinics from discussing abortion with women. condoleezza rice, top foreign policy adviser for gov george w bush, accuses vice pres al gore of misrepresenting bush's views on major issues in his foreign policy address in boston, and of taking series of positions 'at complete odds' with how he has acted for past seven years as vice president; photo (m) the top foreign policy adviser for gov. george w. bush argued today that vice president al gore had misrepresented mr. bush's views on how to deal with russia and china and had taken ''a series of positions that are at complete odds with how he has acted for the past seven years.'' in a telephone conversation with reporters, mr. bush's adviser, condoleezza rice, offered a response to a speech by mr. gore that, while reported in newspapers today, had not yet been delivered. based on the advance text of the speech, ms. rice said mr. gore had glossed over the clinton administration's cuts in military procurement and had ignored his involvement in a largely failed effort to convert russia to capitalism. the top foreign policy adviser for gov. george w. bush argued today that vice president al gore had misrepresented mr. bush's views on how to deal with russia and china and had taken ''a series of positions that are at complete odds with how he has acted for the past seven years.'' in a telephone conversation with reporters, mr. bush's adviser, condoleezza rice, offered a response to a speech by mr. gore that, while reported in newspapers today, had not yet been delivered. based on the advance text of the speech, ms. rice said mr. gore had glossed over the clinton administration's cuts in military procurement and had ignored his involvement in a largely failed effort to convert russia to capitalism. she was particularly critical of  mr. gore's sometimes meandering commitment to free trade. ''where was he when it was time to stand up and be counted in seattle?'' she asked, talking about the meeting of the world trade organization in december that was disrupted by violent protests, and where an administration effort to start a new round of global trade talks had collapsed. mr. gore stayed away from the meeting, partly to avoid angering union members who were demonstrating. president clinton attended the session for a day and a half. mr. gore offered his strongest endorsement yet of the china trade pact in a speech in boston today,  saying he would work to win votes for its approval, even if it meant angering his labor constituency. but ms. rice was not impressed. ''it's about time,'' she said. ''the vote's in three weeks.'' the exchange was particularly notable because foreign policy has played only a bit role in the presidential campaign. mr. bush has delivered one major speech on the subject, devoted almost entirely to security issues. that left him vulnerable to mr. gore's assertion today that the texas governor ''dangerously fixates on the cold war past'' but has not dealt with the major issues of economic globalization that form some of the toughest foreign policy challenges. ms. rice, who was a russia specialist on the national security council in president george bush's administration, said governor bush was planning a series of foreign policy speeches, starting with trade. but she said that the timing of those speeches had not been set. in her critique of mr. gore's speech, ms. rice said she was particularly mystified about why he raised the issue of russia. ''the vice president himself oversaw gore-chernomyrdin,'' she said, referring to meetings between mr. gore and viktor s. chernomyrdin, the russian prime minister, on issues that included security and economic transformation. ''at the time it was very clear that chernomyrdin and others who the vice president was calling 'reformers' were stealing the country blind, with the money going into swiss bank accounts.'' the essence of mr. gore's critique today was that mr. bush was aligned with right-wing republicans and regarded both russia and china as ''future enemies'' rather than partners and competitors. ms. rice argued that mr. gore had deliberately misstated mr. bush's views, incorrectly casting him as a cold warrior and an isolationist. ''the interests of the u.s. are served by engagement with russia and china,'' she said, ''but you have to engage them in a realistic way, not a romantic one.'' ''i would not call either country a threat, but both are challenges,'' she said, using terminology close to mr. gore's. she said mr. gore had mischaracterized mr. bush's views on missile defenses, an area of dispute with russia. she enlisted senator richard g. lugar of indiana, a mainstream republican on the foreign relations committee, to declare that mr. gore's speech was a compendium of foreign policy problems ''rather than a strategic vision.'' she also said mr. gore had participated in decisions to ''cut military procurement by 13 percent'' since the beginning of the clinton administration. goldberg-abraham. of brooklyn, new york, on april 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. devoted husband of the late rose. cherished father of muriel (micki) ginsberg. dear father-in-law of jack. honored grandfather of andrew (marnie) and peter. loving brother of danny and of the late benjamin, herbert, sam and louis. founder of fraser-gold carpet corporation in manhattan, ny, goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. he was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, masonic and knights of pythian lodges. abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. he loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. dad, you changed so many lives. thank you for the joy you gave us all. service today, 1 pm, ''parkside'' memorial chapel, 2576 flatbush ave., brooklyn, ny. contributions in his memory may be made to lenox hill bikur cholim, 131 east 78th st., new york, ny 10021. goldberg-abraham. of brooklyn, new york, on april 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. devoted husband of the late rose. cherished father of muriel (micki) ginsberg. dear father-in-law of jack. honored grandfather of andrew (marnie) and peter. loving brother of danny and of the late benjamin, herbert, sam and louis. founder of fraser-gold carpet corporation in manhattan, ny, goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. he was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, masonic and knights of pythian lodges. abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. he loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. dad, you changed so many lives. thank you for the joy you gave us all. service today, 1 pm, ''parkside'' memorial chapel, 2576 flatbush ave., brooklyn, ny. contributions in his memory may be made to lenox hill bikur cholim, 131 east 78th st., new york, ny 10021. news analysis of vice pres al gore's foreign policy address in boston in which he criticized gov george w bush as having risky foreign policy scheme; gore is using classic incumbent strategy made especially classic by bush's father in 1988, when he raised questions about record and readiness of michael dukakis, then governor of massachusetts, to be president; photo (m) with a fullblown attack today on gov. george w. bush over foreign policy, vice president al gore seemed to be executing a classic incumbent strategy, one made especially classic by governor bush's father, then the vice president, against another sitting governor in 1988. the gore campaign has been sifting through the detritus of the elder mr. bush's steamrolling of gov. michael s. dukakis of massachusetts and has unearthed useful lessons. those lessons, for an incumbent vice president defending a relatively popular administration against a sitting governor, are becoming increasingly evident. the basic thrust: try to hamstring the opponent by raising questions about his record and his readiness to be president. with a fullblown attack today on gov. george w. bush over foreign policy, vice president al gore seemed to be executing a classic incumbent strategy, one made especially classic by governor bush's father, then the vice president, against another sitting governor in 1988. the gore campaign has been sifting through the detritus of the elder mr. bush's steamrolling of gov. michael s. dukakis of massachusetts and has unearthed useful lessons. those lessons, for an incumbent vice president defending a relatively popular administration against a sitting governor, are becoming increasingly evident. the basic thrust: try to hamstring the opponent by raising questions about his record and his readiness to be president. neither the gore campaign nor the bush campaign particularly likes the analogy. the gore team says it is having a high-minded policy debate and is not employing negative personal attacks. the bush campaign says mr. gore, unlike vice president george bush in 1988, is misrepresenting the governor's record. their routes may be different, but the gore campaign arrives at the same place governor bush's father arrived a dozen years ago. they both present a sitting vice president as the responsible steward of the current peace and prosperity. and they both cast the challenger as risky and irresponsible and his state as an alien universe that is culturally out of the mainstream. already, texas has been portrayed as such an aberration that it almost resembles, well, massachusetts in 1988. governor bush began this campaign much the way governor dukakis began his, as the respected if little-known executive of a state that had appeared to make strides economically and socially. part of this was mr. dukakis's  fault. he did not think vice president bush's attacks were worth answering. and he slapped on a helmet and climbed into a battle tank, providing perhaps the most enduring, if hapless, image of his campaign. this time around, mr. gore's chief criticism of mr. bush was initially confined to the governor's ''risky tax scheme.'' but he has ratcheted up that criticism every day. now the word ''risky,'' supplemented by ''irresponsible'' and ''reckless,'' is applied to the entire bush world view. the risky tax scheme begets a risky economic plan, which encompasses risky health and education plans and so on. so in a major foreign policy speech in boston today, mr. gore criticized mr. bush for talking about a costly and controversial star wars missile defense plan in his meeting with the foreign minister of russia and said the texan ''chose the worst possible venue in which to launch -- for lack of a better phrase -- his risky foreign policy scheme.'' on the domestic policy front, mr. gore has portrayed mr. bush's texas as a backwater with substandard education and inadequate health insurance and its residents as so gun-happy that the governor signed a bill allowing them to take weapons into churches. further, mr. gore likes to link governor bush with the ''failed'' policies of his father and refers often to ''the bush-quayle recession.'' today mr. gore said mr. bush was ''stuck in a cold war mindset'' and that he would have to fill in the ''gaps'' in his knowledge of foreign policy with the right-wing isolationist ideology of congressional republicans like senator jesse helms. but if mr. gore has learned from the 1988 campaign, so has governor bush. instead of allowing mr. gore to define him the way vice president bush defined governor dukakis, governor bush has tried to the avoid the extremist conservative box mr. gore has tried to put him in. governor bush has spent much time reaching for the political center, especially on issues like education and health care, which have traditionally been viewed as more favorable to democrats. and he has emphasized bipartisanship and his ability to work with democrats. governor bush has also been quicker to respond to attacks than was governor dukakis. unlike mr. dukakis, governor bush is not only resisting mr. gore's caricature of him but is constructing his own caricature of mr. gore, as the candidate who does not tell the truth and is bent on a campaign of destruction. the constant refrain from the bush campaign is that mr. gore ''will say anything to get elected.'' mr. gore has pushed away any suggestion that he is being negative, saying he believes the country wants a healthy debate on the issues people care about. he has already signaled what some of those issues will be and how he intends to use them, as in recent days, when he excoriated mr. bush's record on the environment by calling texas the most polluted state in the country, citing houston's chronic air pollution as an example. and while some in the gore campaign have been studying the 1988 campaign -- its similarities include an incumbent vice president who began the campaign in double digits behind a governor -- his spokesman rejects the idea that the 1988 bush campaign is any kind of model. ''we're putting out our positive vision,'' said chris lehane, a spokesman for mr. gore. ''the difference is that in 1988, bush's goal was to pull down dukakis.'' it was in this long tradition that vice president gore's first television commercial, once he secured the nomination, said to viewers: ''al gore is ready. is george w.?'' The most incongruous sight of the Jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: Bill Parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes Saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. The most incongruous sight of the Jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: Bill Parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes Saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. As dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the Delrakhim synagogue. As dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the Delrakhim synagogue. GOLDBERG-Abraham. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. Devoted husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Muriel (Micki) Ginsberg. Dear father-in-law of Jack. Honored grandfather of Andrew (Marnie) and Peter. Loving brother of Danny and of the late Benjamin, Herbert, Sam and Louis. Founder of Fraser-Gold Carpet Corporation in Manhattan, NY, Goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. He was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, Masonic and Knights of Pythian Lodges. Abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. He loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. Dad, you changed so many lives. Thank you for the joy you gave us all. Service today, 1 PM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill Bikur Cholim, 131 East 78th St., New York, NY 10021. GOLDBERG-Abraham. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. Devoted husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Muriel (Micki) Ginsberg. Dear father-in-law of Jack. Honored grandfather of Andrew (Marnie) and Peter. Loving brother of Danny and of the late Benjamin, Herbert, Sam and Louis. Founder of Fraser-Gold Carpet Corporation in Manhattan, NY, Goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. He was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, Masonic and Knights of Pythian Lodges. Abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. He loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. Dad, you changed so many lives. Thank you for the joy you gave us all. Service today, 1 PM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill Bikur Cholim, 131 East 78th St., New York, NY 10021. The most incongruous sight of the Jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: Bill Parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes Saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. The most incongruous sight of the Jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: Bill Parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes Saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. As dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the Delrakhim synagogue. As dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the Delrakhim synagogue. GOLDBERG-Abraham. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. Devoted husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Muriel (Micki) Ginsberg. Dear father-in-law of Jack. Honored grandfather of Andrew (Marnie) and Peter. Loving brother of Danny and of the late Benjamin, Herbert, Sam and Louis. Founder of Fraser-Gold Carpet Corporation in Manhattan, NY, Goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. He was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, Masonic and Knights of Pythian Lodges. Abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. He loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. Dad, you changed so many lives. Thank you for the joy you gave us all. Service today, 1 PM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill Bikur Cholim, 131 East 78th St., New York, NY 10021. GOLDBERG-Abraham. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. Devoted husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Muriel (Micki) Ginsberg. Dear father-in-law of Jack. Honored grandfather of Andrew (Marnie) and Peter. Loving brother of Danny and of the late Benjamin, Herbert, Sam and Louis. Founder of Fraser-Gold Carpet Corporation in Manhattan, NY, Goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. He was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, Masonic and Knights of Pythian Lodges. Abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. He loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. Dad, you changed so many lives. Thank you for the joy you gave us all. Service today, 1 PM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill Bikur Cholim, 131 East 78th St., New York, NY 10021. The most incongruous sight of the Jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: Bill Parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes Saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. The most incongruous sight of the Jets' three-day minicamp for rookies this weekend: Bill Parcells turning his back on practice for several minutes Saturday to pet a cat that was hiding in the bushes next to the practice field. As dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the Delrakhim synagogue. As dusk obscured the orange trees and rose bushes in the courtyard, a group of solemn women pulled off their head  scarves and cloaks, slipped on rubber sandals and readied themselves today for the mikvah, or ritual bath, in a steamy side building of the Delrakhim synagogue. GOLDBERG-Abraham. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. Devoted husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Muriel (Micki) Ginsberg. Dear father-in-law of Jack. Honored grandfather of Andrew (Marnie) and Peter. Loving brother of Danny and of the late Benjamin, Herbert, Sam and Louis. Founder of Fraser-Gold Carpet Corporation in Manhattan, NY, Goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. He was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, Masonic and Knights of Pythian Lodges. Abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. He loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. Dad, you changed so many lives. Thank you for the joy you gave us all. Service today, 1 PM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill Bikur Cholim, 131 East 78th St., New York, NY 10021. GOLDBERG-Abraham. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. Devoted husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Muriel (Micki) Ginsberg. Dear father-in-law of Jack. Honored grandfather of Andrew (Marnie) and Peter. Loving brother of Danny and of the late Benjamin, Herbert, Sam and Louis. Founder of Fraser-Gold Carpet Corporation in Manhattan, NY, Goldie was loved by all who knew him in the industry. He was devoted to his friends, neighbors, synagogue, Masonic and Knights of Pythian Lodges. Abe embraced life with vigor and optimism. He loved music and always was ready to break into song and dance. Dad, you changed so many lives. Thank you for the joy you gave us all. Service today, 1 PM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill Bikur Cholim, 131 East 78th St., New York, NY 10021.