 vice pres al gore delivers policy speech on crime in atlanta, calling for broad array of anticrime measures including mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees; proposes spending $500 million per year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use; criticizes republican rival gov george w bush for cutting state financing of drug treatment by half; photo (m) in a speech pungent with tough talk about criminals, drug abusers and his republican rival for president, vice president al gore called today for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees. choosing a southern state as the backdrop for one of his most conservative speeches of the presidential campaign, mr. gore proposed federal spending of $500 million a year  to help states test, treat and counsel  prisoners and parolees for drug use. in a speech pungent with tough talk about criminals, drug abusers and his republican rival for president, vice president al gore called today for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees. choosing a southern state as the backdrop for one of his most conservative speeches of the presidential campaign, mr. gore proposed federal spending of $500 million a year  to help states test, treat and counsel  prisoners and parolees for drug use. ''when inmates are sent back to the streets unrehabilitated, unrepentant and unskilled, then they are just going to commit more crime and go right back into prison,'' mr. gore said to a crowd filled with uniformed police officers. as in all his recent policy speeches, the vice president used a harsh tone to attack gov. george w. bush of texas, the apparent republican presidential nominee, this time maintaining that he had cut state financing of drug treatment by half. as a result of such policies, mr. gore said, texas under mr. bush has experienced a 25 percent increase in the number of former inmates returned to prison for new crimes within three years of release. mr. gore did not suggest that mr. bush had been soft on crime, a position that would be hard to defend: in mr. bush's five and a half years as governor, texas has undertaken the nation's largest prison-building program, executed a record number of criminals, lengthened sentences for many crimes and incarcerated a rising number of juveniles. but the vice president did say: ''i believe that we should demand that criminals get clean before they get out of jail. governor bush seems content to keep pushing them out of the same revolving door.'' aides to mr. bush disputed mr. gore's statistic on texas recidivism and his accusation that the governor had cut financing of drug treatment. they also said violent crime in the state had fallen 20 percent, to a 20-year low, during the bush administration. and they asserted that the availability of drug treatment in federal prisons had declined during the clinton-gore administration, even as  drug use among adolescents had risen (an assertion disputed in turn by the gore campaign). ''if al gore is willing to attack texas, where violent crime is at a 20-year low and the largest prison drug-treatment program in the country is located, we're also expecting attacks on texans for defending the alamo,'' said dan bartlett, a bush aide. just as mr. bush has tried to move further to the center of the political spectrum with education and health care proposals, mr. gore's crime speech today provided him an opportunity to reach out to centrist republicans and conservative democrats. and he seized it with gusto. ''we can't go back to the finger-pointing and failed strategies that led to that steep increase in crime in the bush-quayle administration,'' he said. ''and we can't go back to the old democratic approach, which was tough on the causes of crime but not tough enough on crime itself, again when people in both political parties wanted us to do more.'' mr. gore's effort to outflank governor bush on crime recalls bill clinton's drive in the 1992 campaign to neutralize what had been a potent republican issue by advocating tough anticrime measures, including the death penalty. the vice president's speech today, typifying the administration's approach to policy making, offered a mixture of ideas -- some new, some old, many small-bore. several of the ideas were first discussed by mr. gore in a crime speech last july in boston, where he called for longer sentences for all crimes committed with guns and for requiring photo-bearing licenses for people who buy new handguns. today mr. gore restated his support for a proposal that federal money help local governments hire 50,000 new police officers in the coming decade. the clinton administration has already helped finance the hiring of 60,000 new police officers, with 40,000 more in the pipeline. mr. gore also proposed aid to help state and local governments buy computers for crime-fighting purposes, hire new prosecutors and expand after-school programs. mr. gore also jumped into what has become a contentious debate in congress by endorsing a constitutional amendment to expand the rights of crime victims. the amendment would grant victims and their families the right to reasonable notice of court proceedings involving their cases, the right to have a voice in those proceedings, and the right to notice of an offender's release or escape from prison. in his own words  al gore gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, could play a decisive role on the plan at the convention. but his campaign had no comment tonight, saying mr. bush looked forward to studying the report. on the democratic side, the national committee's satisfaction with the existing system reflected the position of the campaign of vice president al gore. although mr. flake endorsed al gore for the democratic presidential nomination in february, he has criticized the vice president's education policy, which opposes vouchers. last october, mr. flake gave a warm introduction to george w. bush, whom he referred to as ''my homeboy,'' at a meeting of the manhattan institute for policy research, a conservative advocacy group, at which governor bush outlined his education proposals. bill east was greatly underestimated by the old guard, george bush and bob dole. he upended them and became, heaven help us, the poster boy for his generation, dominating the 90's. his rise was relentless, leaving a trail of enemies behind, using any means at his disposal to rule. he staged a midcareer resurgence in the 50's by putting a mute in his horn and familiar pop melodies in his hands. in 1952 mr. jones received an offer from the pianist joe bushkin to fill in at the embers, one of new york's 52nd street jazz clubs. mr. jones agreed to put a mute in his horn; this quieter sound was what his predecessor in the band, buck clayton, had adopted, and it was what the restaurant preferred. mr. jones, whose resume included stints with the society band leaders lester lanin and meyer davis, wasn't particularly fazed. despite the fact that his regular style was open, forceful and swinging in the louis armstrong vein, he knew how to play softly too. the title of edmund wilson's book on civil war writings, ''patriotic gore,'' is an apt phrase for mr. bradley's work. as a reconstruction of one of the bloodiest battles of world war ii, ''flags of our fathers'' is straightforwardly patriotic. there is no historical revisionism here; in mr. bradley's vision, the americans are the good guys, and the japanese enemy, while brave, is ruthless and unspeakably cruel. late last year trent lott, the senate majority leader, and other foes of the mccain-feingold bill that would ban the unlimited donations to political parties known as soft money never tired of saying that this was an issue of little interest to american voters. then the reform cause was energized by senator john mccain's primary campaign, and by a democratic race in which vice president al gore declared that enactment of the soft-money ban would be one of his highest priorities as president. late last year trent lott, the senate majority leader, and other foes of the mccain-feingold bill that would ban the unlimited donations to political parties known as soft money never tired of saying that this was an issue of little interest to american voters. then the reform cause was energized by senator john mccain's primary campaign, and by a democratic race in which vice president al gore declared that enactment of the soft-money ban would be one of his highest priorities as president. unfortunately, gov. george w. bush has so far joined mr. lott as an obstacle to reform. he says he favors a ban on corporation and union contributions to parties, but he would leave open a wide loophole by allowing unlimited donations to parties from individuals. like other opponents of reform, he calls it a free speech issue. but congress set limits on individual donations to candidates in 1974 after the watergate scandals, and the legislation before congress would simply extend those limits to donations to parties, which have been used to undermine the old reforms. mr. mccain is to meet with the presumptive party nominee in a few days to talk about issues. he needs to press mr. bush to support his campaign finance legislation in the senate, where it commands majority support, and mr. bush ought to sign on to real reform. americans want it. most in congress want it. now even the donors want it. mr. bush and mr. lott should not stand in their way. it took 50 years, but junior's has finally crossed the brooklyn bridge. yesterday, junior's, a flatbush avenue landmark that made its reputation on its cheesecake, opened a 60-seat restaurant in grand central terminal. mr. stewart declined through a spokeswoman to comment on the charges yesterday. the spokeswoman, kelly bush, said that mr. stewart had not yet been notified of the action. mr. stewart said that before he made the speech, he alerted mr. miller; the play's director, david esbjornson; ms. bush; and the rest of the cast. the actors declined through a secret ballot to join mr. stewart onstage. more pointedly, moshe gorelick, in an article in a haredi weekly titled ''even in israel they deny the holocaust,'' said the official holocaust day explicitly disdained those who ''kept their godly souls until the last minute'' as ''going like lambs to the slaughter.'' behind-the-scenes jockeying for vice president is under way, with dozens of politicians and business executives maneuvering to land on candidates' purported short lists; many are seeking to score points with vice pres al gore and gov george w bush by stumping for them nationwide, dispensing unsolicited political and policy tips and seizing every opportunity to say flattering things about their party's standard bearer (m) it was not the spectacular golf course on a cove overlooking the pacific ocean that led gov. tom ridge of pennsylvania to fly here the other day to address a group of republicans (though he did squeeze in a round before his speech). it was the chance to do something a politician rarely does: praise another politician more than himself. the object of his affection was gov. george w. bush. bill richardson, the secretary of energy, cut short a visit to india for meetings on nuclear proliferation last october so he could be in new hampshire to toss questions at vice president al gore in preparation for his first debate with bill bradley. after only 28 hours in india, mr. richardson rushed to london and then flew to boston, where a waiting gore aide frantically drove him to hanover, n.h., just in time to catch the vice president in the parking lot. it was not the spectacular golf course on a cove overlooking the pacific ocean that led gov. tom ridge of pennsylvania to fly here the other day to address a group of republicans (though he did squeeze in a round before his speech). it was the chance to do something a politician rarely does: praise another politician more than himself. the object of his affection was gov. george w. bush. bill richardson, the secretary of energy, cut short a visit to india for meetings on nuclear proliferation last october so he could be in new hampshire to toss questions at vice president al gore in preparation for his first debate with bill bradley. after only 28 hours in india, mr. richardson rushed to london and then flew to boston, where a waiting gore aide frantically drove him to hanover, n.h., just in time to catch the vice president in the parking lot. they are also seeking to score points with mr. bush and mr. gore by stumping for them around the country, dispensing unsolicited political and policy tips and seizing every opportunity to say flattering things about their party's standard bearer. mindful that they not appear unseemly, the one thing they dare not do is utter two words directly to the candidate: running mate. the gore and bush camps have only begun their painstaking hunts to find just the right running mate, and to resolve perhaps the one lingering mystery in the presidential sweepstakes before the national conventions in late summer. in recent days, tony coelho, mr. gore's campaign chairman, has been making the rounds, informing some politicians -- even some that others on the campaign said they did not consider hot prospects -- that they were in contention. warren christopher, the former secretary of state, is running the vice presidential screening process for mr. gore. the vice president turned to him because mr. christopher had the same job in 1992, when he helped bill clinton settle on senator gore. mr. bush has picked dick cheney, a former defense secretary and white house chief of staff who served under his father, to conduct his search. since the republican convention is first, mr. gore's choice may be in direct reaction to mr. bush's. for example, gore advisers said that if mr. bush picks a woman, they might feel pressure to do the same. but mr. coelho said that because he and mr. gore know most of the contenders pretty well, one of mr. christopher's most important duties is to oversee background checks. many democrats say that senator john kerry of massachusetts has been one of the most obvious practitioners of the subtle-but-aggressive approach. he traveled to early primary states to campaign for mr. gore and, the gore campaign has noticed, has delivered speeches on national policy that helped raise his profile. on the republican side, advisers to elizabeth dole made no secret of her desire to help mr. bush -- and get her name out. after ending her own bid for the republican nomination, she frequently stumped for mr. bush in early primary states. and she has the added benefit that her husband, bob dole, trumpets her availability while she plays coy. mr. ridge is an obvious contender because he comes from a battleground state, has a compelling biography as a vietnam veteran and is versed in national issues from his days in congress. most of all, he gets along well with mr. bush. to many republicans, his biggest drawback is that he favors abortion rights, but that position could help mr. bush appeal to independents and other swing voters. in his appearance here before the lincoln club of northern california, a group of moderate republicans, mr. ridge, brimming with praise for mr. bush, spoke of the governor's ''candor, his mischievous humor, his directness, his decision-making ability.'' mr. ridge said the governor's ''compassionate conservative message makes a lot of sense.'' he defended mr. bush's controversial proposal to cut taxes by nearly half a trillion dollars, saying, ''i don't think governor bush should abandon his plan to cut taxes.'' after the event, mr. ridge insisted in an interview that he had been careful not to campaign to be picked as mr. bush's running mate. ''i don't think it's his style,'' mr. ridge said of mr. bush. ''i don't think it's appropriate. it's certainly not my style.'' aides to gov george w bush fight back against accusations by vice pres al gore that bush's fiscal proposals are risky, saying that growth in economy over the past six months means there would be enough money to accommodate comfortably governors spending and tax cut proposals; battle over numbers underscores how much presidential campaign will be fought over economic policy and related question of how to shore up social security (m) aides to gov. george w. bush fought back today against accusations that his fiscal proposals are risky, saying that the growth in the economy over the past six months meant that there would be enough money to accommodate comfortably the governor's spending and tax cut proposals. mr. bush's advisers released a new analysis of his budget plans after days in which vice president al gore has sharply criticized mr. bush on fiscal issues. mr. gore has asserted that mr. bush's large tax cut proposal and plan to push for a portion of social security payroll taxes to be put into private investment accounts would return the nation to the era of deficits. aides to gov. george w. bush fought back today against accusations that his fiscal proposals are risky, saying that the growth in the economy over the past six months meant that there would be enough money to accommodate comfortably the governor's spending and tax cut proposals. mr. bush's advisers released a new analysis of his budget plans after days in which vice president al gore has sharply criticized mr. bush on fiscal issues. mr. gore has asserted that mr. bush's large tax cut proposal and plan to push for a portion of social security payroll taxes to be put into private investment accounts would return the nation to the era of deficits. mr. gore went on an advertising offensive on monday against mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, through a series of interviews and television appearances, charging that mr. bush would continue ''multitrillion-dollar debts.'' campaigning today, mr. gore called mr. bush's social security proposal ''bad for america's future and bad for america's economy.'' the battle over numbers underscores how much the presidential campaign -- the first one waged in the new era of federal surpluses -- will be fought over economic policy and the related question of how to shore up social security. the gore campaign considers the economic prosperity of the clinton years one of its greatest assets. the figures released by bush aides today addressed a weakness in earlier calculations. with the annual spending battle stepping up on capitol hill, the bush campaign stopped assuming congress would make large reductions in domestic spending, instead assuming discretionary domestic spending would grow. at the same time, mr. bush's advisers argued that the growth in the economy over the past six months means the federal surplus will be larger than previously forecast. they said that under their new calculations the estimated federal surplus across 10 years -- after $2.2 trillion is set aside for social security -- will amount to $1.8 trillion. that is roughly $1 trillion more than the gore campaign estimates and about $500 billion more than the bush campaign's earlier projections. mr. gore assumes a higher rate of spending and a less robust economy. mr. bush's aides said his cut would use 1.3 trillion surplus dollars, allowing $512 billion for other programs. ''the bottom line is clear,'' said lawrence b. lindsey, the bush campaign's chief economic adviser. ''governor bush's plan takes care of social security first, provides america's working families with a tax break and does it all within the context of a balanced budget.'' the bush campaign's new calculations were released less than 24 hours after mr. gore's aides held their own session with reporters and released an array of numbers they said showed that to accommodate his tax cut, mr. bush either had to make ''cuts in core areas of government that are unimaginable'' or risk a return to deficits. mr. gore's aides were still critical of mr. bush today. ''last month he claimed that his tax cut and spending increases were paid for,'' said elaine kamarck, policy adviser to mr. gore. ''today, after finding more money, bush still can't pay for his promises for a huge tax cut, increased spending and privatization of social security.'' the gore campaign said mr. bush was underestimating spending, and mr. bush's advisers refused to disclose how much mr. bush's embrace of a national missile defense system and prescription drug program would cost, while saying the proposals fit in their spending plan. the most serious dispute between the two campaigns is the true cost of mr. bush's tax-cut proposal. mr. bush's aides said the tax cut would cost $1.3 trillion over 10 years from 2001-2010. over just five years they said it would cost $460 billion, slightly less than their original estimate of $483 billion. and they pointed to an analysis from the congressional joint committee on taxation backing them. the committee is controlled by republicans. the gore campaign argued that it was more appropriate to examine the tax cut through 2011, since the tax cut does not go into effect until fiscal 2002. mr. gore's aides said that once that extra year is added in, as well as lost interest costs, the tax cut costs $2 trillion. another looming battle is over debt reduction and social security. mr. gore has made eliminating the public debt the centerpiece of his economic agenda. he says that mr. bush's proposal for putting some social security money into individual retirement accounts will carry a huge cost because it will require using part of the federal surplus that would otherwise go toward eliminating the national debt. mr. bush's aides counter that by giving individual workers their own retirement accounts, which can be invested in financial markets, they decrease the government's long-term obligation to pay benefits out of tax revenues. this itself, they say, is a form of debt reduction. miner-frieda, a brooklyn resident since her birth on march 28, 1912, died in los angeles on april 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. her daughter, elaine korotzer; son, lawrence miner; brothers, ben gluck, joseph gluck, and hyman gluck; sisters, jeanette prager and evelyn newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. the tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. services today at 12 noon from boulevardriverside chapels, 1895 flatbush ave., brooklyn, ny. miner-frieda, a brooklyn resident since her birth on march 28, 1912, died in los angeles on april 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. her daughter, elaine korotzer; son, lawrence miner; brothers, ben gluck, joseph gluck, and hyman gluck; sisters, jeanette prager and evelyn newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. the tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. services today at 12 noon from boulevardriverside chapels, 1895 flatbush ave., brooklyn, ny. now one of the speakers bureau success stories, ms. brandman sat in the balcony at the flatbush park jewish center synagogue monday night, clutching a stack of index cards. vice president al gore, treading carefully, broke with the clinton administration and also suggested that the case was best left to the courts. at stake is a crucial group of cuban-american voters, which leans republican but helped deliver florida to president clinton in 1996. some analysts say republicans were just trying to help george w. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, win florida. ''some would suggest that if gore can deny bush florida, gore would be hard to beat,'' said brian kennedy, a republican political consultant. ''republicans want to remind people that it was the clinton administration that came in and pointed guns to take this boy back.'' two years ago, homer bush came off the yankee bench with his awesome speed and he stole a few bases and won a few games. now there is clay bellinger, whose strength is versatility. joe girardi was once the yankees' backup catcher, and now the backups are jim leyritz and turner. george w. bush -- palm springs, calif.  al gore -- atlantic city, new york george w. bush -- palm springs, calif.  al gore -- atlantic city, new york gore anticrime proposal  vice president al gore called for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees. his proposal would have the government spend $500 million a year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use. bush aides fight back  aides to gov. george w. bush disputed accusations by vice president al gore that mr. bush's fiscal proposals were risky. they said economic growth in the last six months meant that there would be enough money to easily accommodate the governor's spending and tax cut proposals. mr. trumpet, 32, was charged last may with thrusting a gun into mr. marcelus's face, beating him and stealing his wallet as mr. marcelus delivered a pizza to mr. trumpet's home in east flatbush. but last week, after the police discovered mr. marcelus's burned and decapitated body wrapped up in a roll of carpet in a parking garage in queens, mr. trumpet was returned to jail in lieu of $750,000 bail. hamada-dorothy, nee fleishman, of west caldwell, n.j. on monday, may 1st, age 91. beloved wife of the late joseph hamada. devoted mother of roslyn gore of clifton, n.j and edwin hamada. dear sister of the late rose wenig and bernard fleishman. loving grandmother of ada (kathy) jill, audrey, jacobs (sean), wendy gordon (bradley), matthew and nikelle. services at jewish memorial chapel, 841 allwood rd., clifton, n.j. today at 9:00am hamada-dorothy, nee fleishman, of west caldwell, n.j. on monday, may 1st, age 91. beloved wife of the late joseph hamada. devoted mother of roslyn gore of clifton, n.j and edwin hamada. dear sister of the late rose wenig and bernard fleishman. loving grandmother of ada (kathy) jill, audrey, jacobs (sean), wendy gordon (bradley), matthew and nikelle. services at jewish memorial chapel, 841 allwood rd., clifton, n.j. today at 9:00am gov. thompson named platform chairman  gov. tommy g. thompson of wisconsin has been named chairman of the committee that will draft the republican platform at the party's national convention this summer, an appointment that abortion rights advocates regard as a sign that george w. bush, the presumed presidential nominee, will not ease the party's staunch anti-abortion position. two years ago, governor thompson signed legislation outlawing the procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion. kate michelman, president of the national abortion rights action league, said the selection showed that mr. bush, despite his advocacy of inclusiveness, ''cares about what the far right of his party wants.'' mr. thompson said after his appointment on monday that he looked forward to ''serving on the committee to articulate our party's most innovative ideas, the principles that bind us together and our vision for the future.'' bush holds narrow lead  the latest usa today/cnn/gallup presidential preference poll gives gov. george w. bush a five-point lead over vice president al gore, 49 percent to 44 percent. the poll also indicates that should mr. bush pick senator john mccain of arizona as his running mate, he would widen his lead. among all voters, the poll found, 2 of 3 would not be more inclined to vote for mr. bush if mr. mccain were added to the ticket. but among independents, 2 of 5 said they would be more inclined to vote for mr. bush with mr. mccain on the ticket. the poll, which surveyed 1,003 likely voters from april 28 to 30, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five points. in a usa today/cnn/gallup poll taken three weeks earlier, mr. bush led mr. gore by nine points. It took 50 years, but Junior's has finally crossed the Brooklyn Bridge. Yesterday, Junior's, a Flatbush Avenue landmark that made its reputation on its cheesecake, opened a 60-seat restaurant in Grand Central Terminal. MINER-Frieda, a Brooklyn resident since her birth on March 28, 1912, died in Los Angeles on April 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. Her daughter, Elaine Korotzer; son, Lawrence Miner; brothers, Ben Gluck, Joseph Gluck, and Hyman Gluck; sisters, Jeanette Prager and Evelyn Newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. The tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. Services today at 12 Noon from BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. MINER-Frieda, a Brooklyn resident since her birth on March 28, 1912, died in Los Angeles on April 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. Her daughter, Elaine Korotzer; son, Lawrence Miner; brothers, Ben Gluck, Joseph Gluck, and Hyman Gluck; sisters, Jeanette Prager and Evelyn Newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. The tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. Services today at 12 Noon from BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Now one of the speakers bureau success stories, Ms. Brandman sat in the balcony at the Flatbush Park Jewish Center synagogue Monday night, clutching a stack of index cards. Mr. Trumpet, 32, was charged last May with thrusting a gun into Mr. Marcelus's face, beating him and stealing his wallet as Mr. Marcelus delivered a pizza to Mr. Trumpet's home in East Flatbush. But last week, after the police discovered Mr. Marcelus's burned and decapitated body wrapped up in a roll of carpet in a parking garage in Queens, Mr. Trumpet was returned to jail in lieu of $750,000 bail. It took 50 years, but Junior's has finally crossed the Brooklyn Bridge. Yesterday, Junior's, a Flatbush Avenue landmark that made its reputation on its cheesecake, opened a 60-seat restaurant in Grand Central Terminal. MINER-Frieda, a Brooklyn resident since her birth on March 28, 1912, died in Los Angeles on April 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. Her daughter, Elaine Korotzer; son, Lawrence Miner; brothers, Ben Gluck, Joseph Gluck, and Hyman Gluck; sisters, Jeanette Prager and Evelyn Newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. The tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. Services today at 12 Noon from BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. MINER-Frieda, a Brooklyn resident since her birth on March 28, 1912, died in Los Angeles on April 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. Her daughter, Elaine Korotzer; son, Lawrence Miner; brothers, Ben Gluck, Joseph Gluck, and Hyman Gluck; sisters, Jeanette Prager and Evelyn Newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. The tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. Services today at 12 Noon from BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Now one of the speakers bureau success stories, Ms. Brandman sat in the balcony at the Flatbush Park Jewish Center synagogue Monday night, clutching a stack of index cards. Mr. Trumpet, 32, was charged last May with thrusting a gun into Mr. Marcelus's face, beating him and stealing his wallet as Mr. Marcelus delivered a pizza to Mr. Trumpet's home in East Flatbush. But last week, after the police discovered Mr. Marcelus's burned and decapitated body wrapped up in a roll of carpet in a parking garage in Queens, Mr. Trumpet was returned to jail in lieu of $750,000 bail. It took 50 years, but Junior's has finally crossed the Brooklyn Bridge. Yesterday, Junior's, a Flatbush Avenue landmark that made its reputation on its cheesecake, opened a 60-seat restaurant in Grand Central Terminal. MINER-Frieda, a Brooklyn resident since her birth on March 28, 1912, died in Los Angeles on April 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. Her daughter, Elaine Korotzer; son, Lawrence Miner; brothers, Ben Gluck, Joseph Gluck, and Hyman Gluck; sisters, Jeanette Prager and Evelyn Newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. The tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. Services today at 12 Noon from BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. MINER-Frieda, a Brooklyn resident since her birth on March 28, 1912, died in Los Angeles on April 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. Her daughter, Elaine Korotzer; son, Lawrence Miner; brothers, Ben Gluck, Joseph Gluck, and Hyman Gluck; sisters, Jeanette Prager and Evelyn Newman, four grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive her. The tears of laughter that she brought to our eyes have turned to tears of grief at her passing. Services today at 12 Noon from BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Now one of the speakers bureau success stories, Ms. Brandman sat in the balcony at the Flatbush Park Jewish Center synagogue Monday night, clutching a stack of index cards. Mr. Trumpet, 32, was charged last May with thrusting a gun into Mr. Marcelus's face, beating him and stealing his wallet as Mr. Marcelus delivered a pizza to Mr. Trumpet's home in East Flatbush. But last week, after the police discovered Mr. Marcelus's burned and decapitated body wrapped up in a roll of carpet in a parking garage in Queens, Mr. Trumpet was returned to jail in lieu of $750,000 bail.