 richard wells letter on death penalty in texas under gov george w bush; says inequity of death penalty cannot be separated from fact that those on death row are predominantly poor and without the resources to defend themselves adequately your may 14 front-page article about executions in texas under the watch of gov. george w. bush provides evidence of what opponents of the death penalty have long argued. your may 14 front-page article about executions in texas under the watch of gov. george w. bush provides evidence of what opponents of the death penalty have long argued. overworked, underpaid and too often unqualified lawyers would hardly do for mr. bush, if he or one of his family members faced prosecution, on any charge. yet this seems to be the norm for so many, with so much at stake. republican rift on kosovo  george w. bush criticized a bill backed by senate republicans to set a deadline for withdrawing ground troops from kosovo. republican rift on kosovo  george w. bush criticized a bill backed by senate republicans to set a deadline for withdrawing ground troops from kosovo. though vice president al gore has been an enthusiastic advocate of wider roadless areas, his republican opponent, gov. george w. bush of texas, has not. and mr. bush has said that he would address such issues through close consultation with state and local officials, who in idaho and other states have been battling the administration's plans. that backdrop has added a sharply partisan tone to some of the lobbying now under way, with some environmentalists warning that mr. bush would attempt to reverse any roadless policy the administration puts in place while some critics of the plan say they doubt they will receive a fair hearing. antoinette bosco letter on gov george w bush and the death penalty (may 14 article); calls on nation to stop our 'death row madness' re ''bush candidacy puts focus on executions'' (front page, may 14): republican supporters of george w. bush for the presidency take his word for it that he's the ''compassionate'' one, deserving to lead our country. but if he has such a human heart that he can ''suffer with'' others (as compassion means), why is he not doing something about the rush to kill in the execution chambers of his state? re ''bush candidacy puts focus on executions'' (front page, may 14): republican supporters of george w. bush for the presidency take his word for it that he's the ''compassionate'' one, deserving to lead our country. but if he has such a human heart that he can ''suffer with'' others (as compassion means), why is he not doing something about the rush to kill in the execution chambers of his state? david sherman letter finds it disturbing that gov george w bush could approach death penalty in texas with such apparent disregard for potential errors in the process (may 14 article) it is disturbing that gov. george w. bush, the man who could be our next president, could approach the death penalty in texas with such apparent disregard for potential errors in the process (front page, may 14). it is disturbing that gov. george w. bush, the man who could be our next president, could approach the death penalty in texas with such apparent disregard for potential errors in the process (front page, may 14). does mr. bush truly believe that juries in illinois might make an error, yet juries in texas are immune from them? public lives column; peggy noonan, who was speechwriter for presidents george bush and ronald reagan, and actor kevin kline appear before new york city landmarks preservation commission to oppose apartment building planned for upper east side of manhattan; rap impressario sean combs has his bid for separate trial in gun possession and bribery charges connected with shooting at times square club rejected; rob burnett, executive producer of late show with david letterman, to return to nbc this fall with sitcom ed (m) peggy noonan, who was a speechwriter for presidents george bush and ronald reagan, quoted charles, the prince of wales, and the actor kevin kline quoted shakespeare as they joined the chorus opposing an apartment building planned for the upper east side. peggy noonan, who was a speechwriter for presidents george bush and ronald reagan, quoted charles, the prince of wales, and the actor kevin kline quoted shakespeare as they joined the chorus opposing an apartment building planned for the upper east side. vice pres al gore scores gov george w bush's proposal to let workers invest some of their social security taxes, speech at fordham business school graduate students; says plan would place baby boomers it is intended to help at mercy of markets; says bush's new suggestion that he might let workers invest larger portion of payroll taxes would increase risk of financial disaster; bush accuses gore of flip-flopping on issue; photo (m) taking the offensive against gov. george w. bush's proposal to let workers invest some of their social security taxes, vice president al gore asserted yesterday that the plan would hurt the very baby boomers it is intended to help by placing their retirement savings at the mercy of ruthless and whimsical markets. in an event intended to sway younger voters who have grown accustomed to gravity-defying markets and are more likely to be receptive to the bush plan, the vice president painted a bleak picture of unsophisticated taxpayers losing their savings in fraudulent, risky or just plain bad investments. taking the offensive against gov. george w. bush's proposal to let workers invest some of their social security taxes, vice president al gore asserted yesterday that the plan would hurt the very baby boomers it is intended to help by placing their retirement savings at the mercy of ruthless and whimsical markets. in an event intended to sway younger voters who have grown accustomed to gravity-defying markets and are more likely to be receptive to the bush plan, the vice president painted a bleak picture of unsophisticated taxpayers losing their savings in fraudulent, risky or just plain bad investments. the result, he warned graduate students at fordham business school in manhattan, would be a costly taxpayer-financed bailout of failed investors that would dwarf the multibillion-dollar rescue of bankrupt savings and loans in the 1980's. and yesterday, mr. bush suggested he might support allowing workers to invest a large portion of their payroll taxes, which mr. gore said would increase the chances of financial disaster. ''tens of millions of investors who have not gone through the fordham business school, who have not had an opportunity to gain some basic knowledge to protect themselves against fraud,'' mr. gore said, ''would be placed in a situation where a lot of financial shenanigans could take place, where they are losing their investments because they are not equipped in the way that sophisticated investors are. it happens all the time.'' but mr. bush accused the vice president of flip-flopping on the issue, releasing a videotape from january 1999 showing mr. gore arguing that it might make sense for the federal government to invest some revenue in the stock market to take advantage of its historically strong returns. asked on the tape whether long-term stock investments would be safe, mr. gore replies: ''over any 10-year period in american history returns on equities are just significantly higher than these other returns. and in order to capture some part of that economic advantage, surely there is a way to solve these problems.'' but mr. bush asserted that mr. gore had switched positions for political purposes. ''i believe it's important to be consistent,'' he said in a news conference in portland, ore. ''i believe it's important to have somebody willing to take a stand.'' the day's swirling debate underscored mr. gore's desire to block mr. bush from seizing the advantage -- particularly among young voters -- on an issue that historically has played to the strengths of democratic candidates. but mr. bush's proposal could change that dynamic by making social security more relevant to younger voters who have grown skeptical about the system's viability but are also comfortable with the idea of investing in wall street. polls show those younger voters supported president clinton in 1996. ''i think bush is slicing into part of the democratic coalition with this,'' said andrew smith, director of polling for the university of new hampshire. ''but if older voters can be convinced that this plan is a threat to their social security, bush will have problems.'' mr. gore plans to make that argument to retirees in florida on wednesday. in making social security a major campaign issue, mr. gore and mr. bush have offered sharply different proposals for extending the life of the system, which is projected to become insolvent by the year 2037. mr. bush argues that allowing workers to invest a small portion of their payroll taxes would enable them to take advantage of the wealth created by wall street and reduce the cost to taxpayers of financing the system. but his plan would also leave those investors vulnerable to losses from market fluctuations. mr. gore would not change the current system that guarantees a minimum benefit. to prolong the system's life, mr. gore proposes using the social security surplus to pay down the national debt and then devoting the interest saved to the retirement system. the proposal would keep the system solvent until 2054, he contends. mr. bush's event yesterday, like mr. gore's, was designed to take the issue beyond the elderly, as he tailored his message to the blue-collar work force at a portland company that makes railroad freight cars and marine barges. mr. gore's advisers contend that such working-class voters are more fiscally conservative, less comfortable with the idea of investing in wall street and likely to be opposed to mr. bush's plan. mr. bush tried to show that was not the case yesterday. leading a discussion with workers who spoke highly of their 401(k) plan, the governor suggested that opponents of his plan do not trust working americans to manage their own money. ''you know i wonder out loud whether there may be some in washington saying these workers are not smart enough to figure it out,'' mr. bush said. ''i wonder whether or not that's what people may be really saying deep down. you can't trust individuals in america who maybe don't have ph.d.'s in economics.'' but even as he sought to sell his proposal, mr. bush -- who has not provided details for many aspects of the plan -- made several remarks that are likely to provide fodder for additional attacks from mr. gore. first, mr. bush left open the possibility that his call for limited accounts was just the first step in a broader transformation of the federal retirement system. answering a question about his plan, mr. bush said that the government could not go ''from one regime to another overnight.'' he said: ''it's going to take a while to transition to a system where personal savings accounts are the predominant part of the investment vehicle. and so, this is a step toward a completely different world and an important step.'' mr. bush has refused to say what proportion of the 12.4 percent payroll tax people could put into private accounts under his plan. mr. bush also refused to say how much benefits might be reduced for workers who created private investment accounts. ''that's all up for discussion,'' mr. bush said. with many finance majors present at his fordham event, mr. gore noted that he supported individuals investing in the stock market for retirement, provided no social security funds are involved. but to bolster his point that the markets can be risky, he brought along several experts, including robert e. rubin, a wall street executive who was treasury secretary until last year. in many ways, mr. gore's arguments might have seemed a tough sell to a youthful audience that was both knowledgeable about financial markets and accustomed to hearing that the best retirement savings are in the stock market. indeed, many students' questions indicated a general support for the idea of private investment accounts. but several students said after the event that mr. gore had raised deep questions in their minds about the bush plan. bush opposes kosovo deadline  gov. george w. bush criticized a bill backed by fellow republicans in the senate that would set a deadline for withdrawing american ground troops from kosovo. social security plan assailed  vice president al gore asserted that gov. george w. bush's proposal to let workers invest some of their social security taxes would hurt the very baby boomers it is supposed to help by putting retirement savings at the mercy of the markets. vice pres al gore says he has avoided stock market investing for nearly 25 years because of conflict-of-interest concerns; responds to gov george w bush's stand that gore has substantial stock investments (m) when e. f. hutton talks, al gore doesn't listen. when e. f. hutton talks, al gore doesn't listen. ''twenty-four years ago, when i ran for congress, for good or ill, i made the decision that in order to avoid even the appearance of any conflict of interest, on the many subjects that would come up for votes, i decided as a matter of personal policy i would not invest in stocks,'' mr. gore told reporters yesterday at a news conference in new york. the issue came up after gov. george w. bush asserted that mr. gore had a ''substantial amount of his money invested in the stock market.'' mr. bush made the statement monday in promoting his plan to allow people to invest some of their social security payroll taxes in the market. mr. bush may have thought it was a safe assumption, given that half of all american households are invested in the market. financial experts suggested they would have made the same assumption. david g. dietze, president of point view financial services, an investment advisory firm in summit, n.j., said it was highly unusual for someone of mr. gore's age (52) and income ($171,500 a year) not to be invested. ''there's probably only one chance in 100 that someone of his ilk would not have investments in the stock market,'' mr. dietze said. a 1998 examination of mr. gore's finances by fortune magazine concluded that mr. gore's assets were dwindling and questioned how he could hope to run the united states economy as president with such a dismal track record with his own finances. fortune said mr. gore had a small amount of money in i.r.a.'s, but that most of his money was in checking and passbook accounts or tied up in property. gov george w bush says bill backed by senate republicans to set deadline for withdrawing american ground troops from kosovo would tie his hands if he became president; sens trent lott and john w warner say they will push ahead with bill, which would cut off funds for troops by july 2001; republicans seek graceful way out of showdown; defense sec william s cohen says bill would send dangerous signal (m) gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, today sharply criticized a bill backed by senate republicans that would set a deadline for withdrawing american ground troops from kosovo. mr. bush called the bill a ''legislative overreach'' that would tie his hands if he becomes president. but the senate majority leader, trent lott of mississippi, along with the bill's chief republican sponsor, john w. warner of virginia, said they would push ahead with the measure. that sets up the first major foreign policy clash between mr. bush and congressional republicans. gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, today sharply criticized a bill backed by senate republicans that would set a deadline for withdrawing american ground troops from kosovo. mr. bush called the bill a ''legislative overreach'' that would tie his hands if he becomes president. but the senate majority leader, trent lott of mississippi, along with the bill's chief republican sponsor, john w. warner of virginia, said they would push ahead with the measure. that sets up the first major foreign policy clash between mr. bush and congressional republicans. until today, momentum seemed to be building among most senate republicans for the measure, which would cut off funds for the 5,900 united states forces in kosovo by july 1, 2001, forcing their withdrawal, unless congress authorizes an extension. many republicans said they assumed that mr. bush endorsed the measure, which may be voted on as early as wednesday. but last weekend, opponents of the measure, including at least five republican senators, warned mr. bush's top aides of the potential conflict. in response, the bush campaign issued its statement. ''the clinton-gore administration has failed to instill trust in congress and the american people when it comes to our military and deployment of troops overseas, but the governor does not believe this provision is the way to resolve the lack of presidential leadership,'' scott mcclellan, a spokesman for mr. bush, said. ''governor bush views it as a legislative overreach on powers of the presidency.'' after mr. bush's views were made known today, splits quickly formed in the party line, and republicans were casting about tonight to figure a graceful way out of the showdown. jessica wals, 16, stopped short of saying that she used to be a road cowboy, but admitted that the only thing that made her change was having been in a wreck. she had been on her way to school, trying to make a left onto a main road, her view partly blocked by a bush. maureen dowd op-ed column on vice pres al gore's frustration with his public image (m) a new poll in the new york times says americans think bush is a better leader than i am. i'm losing in all my key demos -- northeasterners, catholics, independents. women don't like me. men really don't like me. the times ran a headline the other day, ''women appear unmoved by gore.'' how embarrassing is that? one woman they interviewed called me a ''jerk.'' another called me ''a snake in the grass'' with ''a big smirk.'' how could you trust bush to be in charge of ''tactical nuclear weapons'' when he can't even pronounce it? ''unleash the tacular weapons, general!'' how could president bush jr. even call for a ''missile launch'' when he calls it a ''mental loss.'' mental loss is right. but everybody in the texas legislature blathers about what a great guy bush is. and everybody who was in the senate with me complains i was a loner and a showboat. people say they want a fighter, but when i attack bush as risky man, they think i'm mean and desperate. bush gets all the breaks. first he gets mccain to meet with him. now he's planning a powwow with colin powell. paul krugman op-ed column scores gov george bush's proposal to let workers invest some of their social security taxes in stocks; warns plan would encourage workers to buy overpriced stocks and lead to even worse social security crisis (m) this question has suddenly become much more relevant, now that george w. bush has announced his social security plan. he doesn't want the trust fund itself to buy stocks. but he does want to let workers put some of their contributions into individual retirement accounts, which could be invested in stocks. and he justifies this proposal by pointing to the high returns that stock market investors have historically earned, and comparing these returns with the ''dismal'' returns of the social security administration. the higher returns people can get by investing in stocks will, he argues, let him scale back guaranteed benefits without reducing actual retirement income. economists who make this argument point to the same statistics cited by mr. bush: the fact that stocks have consistently yielded a much higher rate of return than bonds. why this ''equity premium'' persisted so long remains a puzzle: why didn't investors long ago rush into stocks, driving their prices up and their rate of return down? but anyway, the puzzle is now history: in the 1990's investors did rush into stocks. what the optimists believe is that this rush corrected an error rather than creating one, that the rise of the stock market in recent years reflects not the rise of irrational exuberance but the decline of irrational risk aversion. i have my doubts about this story. but suppose that it is right, and that current stock valuations are in fact reasonable. does this then validate mr. bush's plan? alas, no. you see, those high returns cited by mr. bush -- the returns that are supposed to produce huge gains for workers free to make their own investment decisions -- are what stock investors got during an era in which people were very leery of stocks, and hence prices were low compared with earnings. now that people are no longer so nervous, prices are much higher compared with earnings -- and the higher the price you pay for an asset, the lower the rate of return on your investment. (duh.) so the rate of return on stock investments made now will probably be much lower than the returns people got in the past. (remember, this is the optimistic scenario, which claims that current values are reasonable -- if they aren't, the return will be even lower.) and that means that the proposition that individual investors can expect to do a lot better than the social security administration -- so much better that we can wave away concerns about increased risk -- evaporates. so mr. bush can defend himself against the charge of bad timing by arguing that stocks are not overvalued, that their high prices are justified because people no longer demand traditionally high rates of return. but how can he then assume that people will nonetheless get those traditional high returns -- and use that assumption as the basis for a huge policy initiative? ms. thomas has traveled around the world with presidents richard m. nixon, gerald r. ford, jimmy carter, ronald reagan, george bush and bill clinton. she became famous for occasionally annoying, and now and then amusing, the chief executives with her questions. in cafes, on street corners and in front of newsstands, many people in washington heights have been heatedly talking for weeks about the tactics of the presidential campaign and the merits of the candidates. but in their rapid-fire spanish, they aren't speaking of al gore or george w. bush. instead, they intone the names balaguer, mejia and medina, the three men seeking the presidency of the dominican republic. in cafes, on street corners and in front of newsstands, many people in washington heights have been heatedly talking for weeks about the tactics of the presidential campaign and the merits of the candidates. but in their rapid-fire spanish, they aren't speaking of al gore or george w. bush. instead, they intone the names balaguer, mejia and medina, the three men seeking the presidency of the dominican republic. the 2000 campaign  correction:  may 22, 2000, monday  a picture caption on wednesday about the graduation of vice president's al gore's daughter karenna gore schiff from columbia law school referred imprecisely to her degree. she is not the newest lawyer in her immediate family; she is the only one. while mr. gore's parents were both lawyers and he attended law school, he did not graduate. a picture caption on wednesday about the graduation of vice president's al gore's daughter karenna gore schiff from columbia law school referred imprecisely to her degree. she is not the newest lawyer in her immediate family; she is the only one. while mr. gore's parents were both lawyers and he attended law school, he did not graduate. vice pres al gore's stand on medical use of marijuana seems to have been evolving; he now seems firmer in opposition than he did in december, when he said doctors should have option of using drug to ease pain and called for more research (m) as anyone who has watched al gore over the years knows, some of his positions on various topics have a way of evolving. as the vice president himself has acknowledged, this has been true on abortion and gun control. as anyone who has watched al gore over the years knows, some of his positions on various topics have a way of evolving. as the vice president himself has acknowledged, this has been true on abortion and gun control. back in december, at a town meeting in derry, n.h., mr. gore indicated that he would favor allowing marijuana to be prescribed for medical purposes. he referred to a strikingly personal experience. his sister, nancy gore hunger, died of lung cancer in 1984 after painful chemotherapy. she was being treated in tennessee, where medical marijuana was legal at the time, and her doctor -- ''one of the very best in the entire world,'' mr. gore said -- had prescribed marijuana. she tried it. ''she decided against it because she didn't like it and it didn't produce the desired results for her,'' mr. gore told his audience that night. ''but the doctor said, 'look, this is an option she ought to have available, very carefully monitored and controlled.' and if it had worked for her, i think she should have had the option.'' this answer, while heartfelt, deviated sharply from the clinton administration's policy against medical marijuana. and mr. gore's aides quickly called a news conference so that the vice president could clarify his views. despite what he said at the news conference, there was an unmistakable perception -- on both sides of the issue -- that mr. gore had signaled his support for the practice. opponents, like the american society of addiction medicine, complained. in a letter on dec. 29 to mr. gore, james f. callahan, executive vice president of the group, wrote that mr. gore's comments ''seem to be an unmistakable statement that physicians ought to have the option of using marijuana to alleviate pain.'' mr. gore still gets the occasional question on this subject, as he did last week in california, where voters approved the medicinal use of marijuana. but now, five months after his initial indication that doctors should have the ''flexibility'' to prescribe marijuana, mr. gore appears to have become firmer in his opposition, even though there has been no new research in the intervening months to indicate that marijuana works better or worse than anyone thought in december. ''right now the science does not show me, or the experts whose judgment i trust, that it is the proper medication for pain and that there are not better alternatives available in every situation,'' mr. gore said in response to a student's question last thursday at the elizabeth learning center in cudahy, calif. mr. gore's aides insisted that the vice president's position as articulated last week in california was no different from what he had said at his news conference after the new hampshire town meeting. but mr. bandow of cato, who had heard encouragement in mr. gore's remarks in december, said he detected a difference now. we can continue leading this by building on the progress of the last seven years. twenty-one million new jobs, balanced budgets, lowered crime, stronger schools, better child care, a cleaner environment, a safer and more inclusive american community. and our thanks must go to vice president al gore and president bill clinton. based on his record in keeping the expansion going, mr. greenspan has enjoyed widespread bipartisan support even as he has raised interest rates. both vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush of texas have expressed confidence in him, and so far the fed has not been an issue in the presidential campaign. gov george w bush has reignited debate over future of social security and whether to let individuals invest some of their payroll taxes in stock market; his proposal contains few specifics, leaving supporters and critics to talk in familiar generalities; bush stand reflects wider acceptance of investing some funds in stocks (m) gov. george w. bush of texas has reignited the debate over the future of social security and whether it is a good idea to allow individuals to invest some of their payroll taxes in the stock market. at the same time, mr. bush provided few specifics, saying they would be worked out in bipartisan negotiations. gov. george w. bush of texas has reignited the debate over the future of social security and whether it is a good idea to allow individuals to invest some of their payroll taxes in the stock market. at the same time, mr. bush provided few specifics, saying they would be worked out in bipartisan negotiations. still, the announcement has signaled a change in the debate. although vice president al gore has attacked the idea as inherently risky, the concept of investing some money from payroll taxes in the stock market seemed to be more acceptable today than it was several years ago. mr. shipman, for example, would not comment on how mr. bush's proposal dealt with the cost of administering the social security accounts of private investors because it did not provide enough detail. he also faulted mr. gore and mr. bush for not developing proposals that he said would actually deal with the solvency of social security. the system will start paying out more in benefits than it is collecting in payroll taxes in 2015. ''neither gore nor bush have a plan for balancing the system,'' mr. mueller said. and what benefits would a retiree get -- and how would the social security system cover them -- if the retiree was allowed, as mr. bush proposed, to pass on the assets in the individual accounts to his or her heirs? mr. bush will also face another nagging question: why does he put so much faith in the stock market if his chief economic adviser, lawrence b. lindsey, is so bearish? margaret p levy letter on may 14 article on gov george w bush and his views regarding death penalty in texas re ''bush candidacy puts focus on executions'' (front page, may 14): re ''bush candidacy puts focus on executions'' (front page, may 14): george w. bush -- everett, wash. al gore -- new york; orlando, fla.; nashville george w. bush -- everett, wash. al gore -- new york; orlando, fla.; nashville vice pres al gore has assembled large team of foreign policy advisers whose members could form national security nucleus of gore administration; panel plays nebulous role since gore has never relied on outsiders for foreign policy advice and panel has yet to contribute much of substance to his campaign; photos (m) vice president al gore has assembled a large team of foreign policy advisers whose members could form the national security nucleus of a gore administration. the current role of the advisory group is somewhat nebulous, however, since mr. gore has never relied on outsiders for advice on foreign policy, and the new panel has not yet contributed much of substance to his campaign. vice president al gore has assembled a large team of foreign policy advisers whose members could form the national security nucleus of a gore administration. the current role of the advisory group is somewhat nebulous, however, since mr. gore has never relied on outsiders for advice on foreign policy, and the new panel has not yet contributed much of substance to his campaign. but mr. gore believes he needs to hear fresh voices on foreign policy, several gore aides say, and he has begun to assemble a group of advisers who can address foreign policy questions during the campaign and assist in the transition should mr. gore win in november. the panel includes a number of respected academics, former ambassadors and former subcabinet officers, but its members are less well known than gov. george w. bush's team of foreign policy advisers, who call themselves the vulcans after the greek god of fire and the forge. the bush group includes paul d. wolfowitz, richard l. armitage, richard perle, robert b. zoellick and stephen j. hadley, all of whom served in senior national security posts in the reagan and bush administrations. mr. bush also consults with richard b. cheney, the former secretary of defense, and george p. shultz, the former secretary of state. condoleezza rice, a former top russia specialist at the national security council, coordinates the bush foreign policy advisory team. ''bush needs them,'' said marc c. ginsberg, a longtime friend of president clinton who served as envoy to morocco from 1994 to 1998 and who is now one of two coordinators of the gore foreign policy group. ''he needs the best possible a-list of foreign policy advisers to compensate for his lack of experience and knowledge. al gore doesn't suffer from the same deficiencies.'' mr. gore's group includes former senator james sasser, who was ambassador to china from 1996 to 1999; laura d'andrea tyson, the former head of the national economic council; joan e. spero, former under secretary of state for economic affairs, and ashton b. carter and graham t. allison, harvard professors who served at the pentagon in president clinton's first term. mel levine, a former democratic congressman from los angeles, robert e. hunter, a former ambassador to nato, and richard n. gardner, whose government experience dates to the kennedy administration, are also on the list. their role remains indistinct and there is little evidence that mr. gore will turn to them for foreign policy guidance any time soon. unlike the bush group, they are not holding regular briefings for the vice president, who is as broadly knowledgeable about foreign policy as anyone in the democratic party. they have not been canvassed for policy advice or speech drafts. nor are they authorized to speak to the press on behalf of the gore campaign. the list of their names was produced only after repeated requests from a reporter. nonetheless, competition for spots on the list is fierce because the group is seen as the farm team for senior jobs in a gore administration, should the vice president win in november. serving on the ad hoc gore committee is also a prestigious resume addition for the part-time advisers, many of whom also advise private clients at the same time they give foreign policy counsel to the gore campaign. mr. jentleson, who served in the state department's office of policy planning early in the clinton administration, said mr. gore was reaching beyond the beltway for fresh ideas. he said mr. gore depended on mr. fuerth and samuel r. berger, the white house national security adviser, for day-to-day foreign policy guidance. mr. gore also consults regularly with richard c. holbrooke, the united nations ambassador, whom many consider the leading candidate for secretary of state in a gore administration. mr. gore wants to hear a range of voices as he begins to formulate an approach to global affairs that may at times differ from that of mr. clinton, mr. jentleson said. but the members of the group are well within the mainstream of the democratic party, generally supporting global engagement, protection of the environment and free trade, he added. the panel is being assembled with an eye toward quickly staffing a gore administration, mr. jentleson said. ''by asking them to join this group we're not making any promises, he said. ''but if gore wins the election, it's a lot better to start on wednesday with a group of people you know than to start looking at a pile of resumes.'' foreign policy veterans and even some advisers to mr. gore suggest that the group is largely window-dressing at this point, assembled in part to make it look as though mr. gore is not dependent wholly on his own foreign policy ideas and those of mr. fuerth. membership on the panel also gives foreign policy thinkers in the democratic party a stake in a victory by the vice president in november. he said that mr. fuerth tightly controlled what reached mr. gore and that the two of them made all important decisions with little outside advice. mr. gore did not draw on the advisory group in preparing his most recent address on foreign policy, delivered on may 1 in boston, aides said. the vice president wrote much of the speech himself, with assistance from mr. fuerth and other members of the white house national security staff, they said. in the speech, mr. gore called for an activist foreign policy of ''forward engagement'' and criticized mr. bush for hewing to what he called an obsolete cold-war mentality. mr. fuerth said the outside advisers would become more active as the campaign progressed, serving as surrogate speakers, drafting speeches and responding to press questions on national security matters. but they will never serve as the foreign policy ''brain'' of the gore operation. that job is already taken, mr. fuerth said. Jessica Wals, 16, stopped short of saying that she used to be a road cowboy, but admitted that the only thing that made her change was having been in a wreck. She had been on her way to school, trying to make a left onto a main road, her view partly blocked by a bush. Jessica Wals, 16, stopped short of saying that she used to be a road cowboy, but admitted that the only thing that made her change was having been in a wreck. She had been on her way to school, trying to make a left onto a main road, her view partly blocked by a bush. Jessica Wals, 16, stopped short of saying that she used to be a road cowboy, but admitted that the only thing that made her change was having been in a wreck. She had been on her way to school, trying to make a left onto a main road, her view partly blocked by a bush.