 gov george w bush urges congressional republicans and democrats to support pres clinton and vote to grant china permanent trade rights, saying trade relations with china is work of '13 years and three administrations'; bush's address, at boeing plant in everett, wash, marks one of very few times he has tried publicly to affect pending legislation in congress; bush notes that presidents of both parties have fought for more open china, through trade and rule of law; his speech is latest example of his efforts to portray himself as leader willing to reach across party lines; boeing plant is in region of country that has been at epicenter of debate over trade; vote on measure is too close to call, and bush says that he would call wavering house members if asked to do so by rep tom delay, majority whip; photo (m) calling trade relations with china the work of ''13 years and three administrations,'' gov. george w. bush of texas today urged congressional republicans and democrats alike to support president clinton and vote next week to grant china permanent trade rights. although mr. bush has long favored free trade, his address here today on the vast factory floor of a boeing plant marked one of the very few times that he has tried publicly to affect pending legislation in congress. he called next week's house vote ''among the most serious decisions our government will make this year.'' and he said ''no one serious about shouldering the responsibilities of the presidency'' should remain silent. calling trade relations with china the work of ''13 years and three administrations,'' gov. george w. bush of texas today urged congressional republicans and democrats alike to support president clinton and vote next week to grant china permanent trade rights. although mr. bush has long favored free trade, his address here today on the vast factory floor of a boeing plant marked one of the very few times that he has tried publicly to affect pending legislation in congress. he called next week's house vote ''among the most serious decisions our government will make this year.'' and he said ''no one serious about shouldering the responsibilities of the presidency'' should remain silent. ''from the start of this campaign i have defined some sharp differences with the clinton-gore administration,'' mr. bush said, a sleek boeing 777 behind him. ''but today i want to address an important area of agreement. a pressing question now confronts the congress and it will not wait until the next president takes office.'' mr. bush drew some sharp distinctions between himself and vice president al gore on china. but he portrayed the quest for a more open china, advanced through trade and the rule of law, as one that presidents of both parties had fought for. ''this is not a republican or democratic concern,'' mr. bush said. ''it is an american concern. this trade agreement is the work of 13 years and three administrations. we cannot let that work be undone.'' he did not mention his father by name, although he was one of those presidents. but he quoted ronald reagan, who called free trade ''a forward strategy for freedom.'' with his remarks, mr. bush put himself in a tradition of bipartisan cooperation on foreign policy that has increasingly been eroded in recent years. and the speech was just the latest example of his efforts to portray himself as leader willing to reach across party lines. a spokesman for mr. bush said that he considered the balkan withdrawal measure ''legislative overreach on powers of the presidency.'' mr. bush made his speech in a region of the country that has been at the epicenter of the debate over trade. while washington is oriented toward exports, nearby seattle was also the site of last year's violent protests against the world trade organization. the vast boeing plant itself showcased those divisions. the company is the nation's largest exporter, but a number of its workers said they feared china's entry into the world trade organization would ultimately cost americans jobs. indeed the area's congressman, representative jack metcalf is one of the few republicans who are undecided on the issue. mr. bush, on his campaign plane this afternoon, said that he had made no telephone calls to wavering house members, but would do so if representative tom delay, the majority whip, asked for his help. the state of washington has voted democratic in the last three presidential elections, but mr. bush's aides say they are contesting the state. the employees at the boeing plant gave mr. bush a generally polite reception. he drew applause and a few boos. a long line of workers waited to meet him and shake his hand after the speech. mr. gore has supported the bill, but has been less fervent than the president, trying to avoid the wrath of organized labor, a critical democratic constituency. in fact, today mr. bush seemed a more enthusiastic ally to mr. clinton on the china bill than did mr. gore.  saying that ''the stakes are high,'' he argued passionately for the house to approve china's entry into the world trade organization. he did, however, use the occasion to draw distinctions between the administration's approach to china and trade and his own. he said mr. clinton and mr. gore view china as a ''strategic partner'' and said, ''i view china as a competitor.'' mr. bush also accused the administration of being inconsistent in its approach to taiwan. and he charged that it had bungled various high- profile battles over trade. ''they failed to obtain 'fast track' trade negotiating authority,'' mr. bush said, ''i will fight for it.'' mr. bush said that while china is not a ''strategic partner,'' it is not an enemy. ''when i am the president china will have no doubts about our power and purpose in the region -- about our strong commitment to democratic allies throughout asia,'' he said. boeing workers were divided on the issue. before mr. bush spoke jon j. walker, 46, a tool maker, said he opposed normal trade with china because it would result in the loss of american manufacturing jobs. ''we know that labor is cheaper elsewhere,'' he said. ''we can't compete with somebody who's living in a  cardboard box.'' he said he was a democrat who would vote for mr. gore. afterward, charles webb, 42, a mechanic, said that he was a unionized worker who does not ''follow the union line.'' but he said he was uncertain about china trade because ''i'm not confident with china's human rights record.'' he took a dim view of both candidates. ''i'm not going to vote for gore -- that's a definite,'' mr. webb said. ''vote for mr. bush? i'd prefer not to. but that may be my only choice.'' the china trade wrangle: the bush speech bob herbert op-ed column notes that gov george w bush wants to allow working americans to invest portion of their social security taxes in stock market, even though bush's top economic adviser, lawrence lindsey, has long warned of potential stock market tailspin that could lead to recession, and claims he sold his own stocks two years ago; says stock market, by definition, has winners and losers, even in best of times, yet bush wants to shift portion of social security benefits to non-guaranteed, non-indexed system that is based on luck george w. bush's top economic adviser, lawrence lindsey, has been warning for some time that the stock market is dangerously overvalued, that it's a bubble that is bound to burst, and more likely sooner than later. george w. bush's top economic adviser, lawrence lindsey, has been warning for some time that the stock market is dangerously overvalued, that it's a bubble that is bound to burst, and more likely sooner than later. mr. lindsey, who strongly favors mr. bush's proposed $1.3 trillion tax cut and argues that it would provide a needed economic stimulus, has warned his private clients of a potential stock market tailspin that could lead to a recession. he said he sold his own stocks about two years ago so he would be able ''to sleep at night.'' the other signal came monday when mr. bush told the nation that the key to saving social security retirement benefits was to allow working americans to invest a portion of their social security taxes in the very same stock market that mr. lindsey, at the moment, wants no part of. ''what bush is doing is taking a guaranteed system that is indexed to inflation and shifting a portion of those benefits to a non-guaranteed, non-indexed system that's based on the luck of the stock market,'' said roger hickey, co-director of the campaign for america's future, a progressive policy organization in washington. even if mr. bush's bet is right -- that over the next several years the stock market will do better than most other investments -- there will still be many unfortunate wage earners finding themselves at retirement time on the wrong end of this big policy stick. there is, however, a group of guaranteed winners under mr. bush's plan -- the movers and shakers at the big brokerage houses who have been funneling many millions of dollars into the campaign coffers of mr. bush and other politicians, just begging them to steer some of the hundreds of billions of dollars in social security taxes their way. when the republicans won control of congress in 1946, party leaders called for the repeal of social security. and nearly four decades later, governor bush's fellow texan, senator phil gramm, could be quoted as follows on the question of eliminating minimum benefits for the elderly: governor bush is trying to be a new kind of republican, a new kind of conservative, a man who masks his party's traditionally harsh policies with a winning smile. oh, he's a charmer. bush endorsed as reagan's heir  nancy reagan endorsed gov. george w. bush of texas for president yesterday, claiming him as an heir to the conservative political tradition of her husband, former president ronald reagan. ''his agenda of tax cuts, smaller government and a strong national defense will build pride in america just as it did when my husband was president,'' mrs. reagan said. ''this is a candidate ronnie would be proud of.'' mr. reagan, 89, has alzheimer's disease and no longer makes public appearances or statements. mrs. reagan has offered her endorsement of every republican presidential candidate since her husband left office in 1988. mr. bush proudly embraced the reagan mantle. ''i thank her for her endorsement and pledge an optimistic, positive campaign, in the reagan tradition, to renew america's spirit and encourage a new era of personal responsibility and freedom,'' mr. bush said. the vote is in the mail  unable to affect the presidential nominating contests at this late point, oregon voters used tuesday's vote-by-mail primary, the nation's first, to reject ballot proposals calling for a new gasoline tax and limits on damages in personal-injury lawsuits. oregon residents have voted by mail in local elections and special statewide elections since the early 1980's, but they had never before voted entirely by mail in a regularly scheduled election. a footnote: vice president al gore and mr. bush won going away, as expected, not that it made any difference in the nominating contests. and the turnout? the secretary of state's office put it at 47 percent, the highest since the 1992 primary, when turnout hit 49.1 percent. democrats have sought to portray gov. george w. bush of texas, the republican candidate, as mired in a narrow military vision of national security no longer appropriate in a post-cold-war world. that was a theme of an address delivered last month by vice president gore, the presumed democratic nominee. thus, mr. clinton's long remarks about global warming were a gesture of support for mr. gore, whose ''new security agenda'' includes global warming, and who has been criticized by republicans who say that scientists disagree about how great a threat it is. gov. george w. bush, calling trade relations with china the work of ''13 years and three administrations,'' urged republicans and democrats alike to support president clinton and vote for the bill next week. gov. george w. bush, calling trade relations with china the work of ''13 years and three administrations,'' urged republicans and democrats alike to support president clinton and vote for the bill next week. gore's warning to retirees  vice president al gore told a convention of older people that gov. george w. bush's plan to let workers invest some of their social security taxes could jeopardize retirement benefits of current recipients. latest new york times/cbs news poll shows americans have little sense of power over presidential nominating process; only fifth of them say primary voters selected gov george w bush and vice pres al gore; vast majority of those polled say they would prefer single national primary to present system, which they feel confers too much influence to states holding early presidential primaries; nearly 60 percent of public calls presidential campaign dull, rather than interesting; poll shows overall interest in campaign has dropped sharply in two months since nominations of two major parties were decided (m) americans have little sense of power over the presidential nominating process, with only a fifth of them saying primary voters selected gov. george w. bush of texas and vice president al gore as the candidates for president, the latest new york times/cbs news poll shows. americans have little sense of power over the presidential nominating process, with only a fifth of them saying primary voters selected gov. george w. bush of texas and vice president al gore as the candidates for president, the latest new york times/cbs news poll shows. while respondents agreed that voters had little influence over either party's choice, they had different explanations of who made the republican and democratic decisions. for mr. bush, the public thought campaign money was most important, while for mr. gore, they said it was the support of party leaders. both judgments reflected the attention those factors drew during the nomination contests. while 21 percent said the voters had the most influence in picking mr. bush, 26 percent said party leaders were decisive, and 44 percent credited his success to ''people who contributed money.'' concerning mr. gore, 20 percent said the voters were decisive for his candidacy, while 48 percent said party leaders had the most say and 24 percent said contributors held the most influence. about half of those surveyed said they were satisfied with the candidates who emerged, while half said they wanted more choices. people who said they would vote for mr. bush were slightly more content; 58 percent of them said they were satisfied with the choices now, compared with 52 percent of mr. gore's supporters. the dismay came through in some  follow-up interviews. jane marawar, a homemaker in austin, tex., said, ''it's important to vote, but money seems to be running the election process.'' mrs. marawar, a democrat, said she did not vote in the texas primary on march 14, a week after mr. gore was credited with wrapping up the nomination. by then, she said, ''the die was cast.'' ''that's why we are here on the ground,'' mr. sheaka said. ''otherwise, i see no reason why pa sankoh left the bush and came here.'' after his capture, the locals pounced on him and stripped him of all his clothes, witnesses said. the bill, which would permanently grant china normal trading privileges, also got a plug today from gov. george w. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, who renewed his call on lawmakers to set aside partisan differences and back the measure. the bill, which would permanently grant china normal trading privileges, also got a plug today from gov. george w. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, who renewed his call on lawmakers to set aside partisan differences and back the measure. tipper gore, wife of the vice president, has advocated ''full parity'' in insurance coverage, and mr. gore sometimes promotes the idea in presidential campaign speeches. chief justice william h. rehnquist has long advocated narrowing federal power, but he attained the necessary votes only in recent years. the most important thing the presidential election will decide is the composition of the court for a generation. gov. george w. bush, who is polling well among women voters, says he will appoint strict constructionists, like the ones who ruled against the violence against women act. if he does, no amount of legislation against violence will matter. george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- washington george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- washington mayer-jack. beloved of ethel tucker. office at 32 court st., brooklyn. services friday 11am sherman's flatbush memorial chapel, 1283 coney island ave. mayer-jack. beloved of ethel tucker. office at 32 court st., brooklyn. services friday 11am sherman's flatbush memorial chapel, 1283 coney island ave. salsitz-felicia ''fela'' (nee kluger). beloved wife of the late leo (leibush) salsitz. mother of edwin. aunt of eva wald (with whom she was especially close) and marla, stella, halina, and the late aryeh. sister of the late rosia, mania, leon, and samuel. born in cracow, poland. a holocaust survivor, whose parents asher and regina, brother leon, and first husband leon finder perished in the shoah. she was hidden and saved by jan nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. she was grateful to start a new life in america. despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. she will be missed as the matriach of our family in the u.s.a. and israel. memorial contributions may be made to the jacob perlow hospice, beth isreal medical center, new york. salsitz-felicia ''fela'' (nee kluger). beloved wife of the late leo (leibush) salsitz. mother of edwin. aunt of eva wald (with whom she was especially close) and marla, stella, halina, and the late aryeh. sister of the late rosia, mania, leon, and samuel. born in cracow, poland. a holocaust survivor, whose parents asher and regina, brother leon, and first husband leon finder perished in the shoah. she was hidden and saved by jan nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. she was grateful to start a new life in america. despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. she will be missed as the matriach of our family in the u.s.a. and israel. memorial contributions may be made to the jacob perlow hospice, beth isreal medical center, new york. on sunday, hundreds of thousands of people rallied on the mall to voice support for gun control and, in a sign that the issue remains potent on the campaign trail, gov. george w. bush sought last week to fend off criticism that he is soft on guns by announcing a plan to provide trigger locks to gun owners in texas. the senate passed the crime bill last may, with vice president al gore casting a tie-breaking vote on the gun show amendment. but the the house passed a crime bill that  left out the gun show measure. vice pres al gore steps up his criticism of gov george w bush's proposal to let taxpayers invest some social security taxes; tells aarp members at convention in orlando, fla, that plan could jeopardize retirement benefits even of current recipients; photo (m) stepping up his criticism of gov. george w. bush's proposal to let taxpayers invest some of their social security taxes, vice president al gore told a convention of older americans today that the plan could jeopardize the retirement benefits even of current recipients. injecting a sense of urgency into his dire warnings about mr. bush's plan, mr. gore argued that the proposal could have an almost immediate and negative impact by destabilizing the social security system, weakening the economy and reducing government resources for other programs, including medicare. stepping up his criticism of gov. george w. bush's proposal to let taxpayers invest some of their social security taxes, vice president al gore told a convention of older americans today that the plan could jeopardize the retirement benefits even of current recipients. injecting a sense of urgency into his dire warnings about mr. bush's plan, mr. gore argued that the proposal could have an almost immediate and negative impact by destabilizing the social security system, weakening the economy and reducing government resources for other programs, including medicare. ''you shouldn't be asked to play stock market roulette with your retirement savings in the social security program,'' mr. gore told several thousand people at a convention of aarp, an organization of people 50 and older. ''you shouldn't be left without retirement security if you do. and you should not have to foot the bill for others who do play and happen to lose, because some people would lose. the bush plan raises all of these possibilities.'' mr. gore also seized on remarks by mr. bush on tuesday, when the republican governor of texas suggested that his proposal might be just a first step toward allowing workers to invest most or all of their payroll taxes. ''what if people make poor choices?'' asked mr. gore, the democratic party's presumptive presidential nominee. ''what if the stock market dips right before an individual retires? are individuals stuck with nothing?'' saying that mr. bush has not ruled out the possibility of future benefit cuts, mr. gore added, ''i don't think your social security should be up for grabs, and under my plan, it won't be.'' though mr. bush has not filled in many details of his proposal, its broad outline calls for allowing workers to invest in the markets part of the 12.4 percent payroll tax that finances social security benefits. mr. gore contends that the best way to strengthen the system is to use the social security surplus to pay down the national debt, and then devote the interest savings to the system. the plan, he says, would not only prolong social security's solvency until 2054, but also keep interest rates down and sustain the economic boom. mr. bush argues that the gore proposal, by failing to address social security's underlying problems, would inevitably lead to tax increases or benefit cuts to close future shortfalls in the system. mr. gore has sought to turn the social security debate into a broader issue of leadership style, asserting that mr. bush's ''irresponsible'' plan demonstrates that he would be an incompetent steward of the economy. mr. bush has also tried to make the debate as much about character as about policy, arguing that mr. gore has shown himself to lack credibility, consistency and vision on this and other issues. the bush campaign hammered at that theme again today, releasing material from a white house web site in which mr. gore is said to have supported a proposal last year by the clinton administration to invest some social security money ''to achieve higher returns.'' ''al gore proposed allowing the federal government to invest in the stock market to save social security and now he's denying it,'' said ari fleischer, a spokesman for the bush campaign. ''whether the issue is abortion, gun control, medical marijuana and now social security, al gore has a history of changing his position for political gain. that's why he has a problem with credibility.'' mr. gore's aides contend that the administration's proposal involved less risk than mr. bush's. and mr. gore himself says he grew wary of the plan after hearing debate on it. that would push the end of the trial well into the next presidential administration. and though microsoft denies it, many analysts say they think the company hopes a republican administration will drop the breakup idea. the presumed g.o.p. nominee, gov. george w. bush of texas, has already suggested that he opposes a breakup of the company. excerpts from remarks by gov george w bush on need for normal trade relations with china (m) following are excerpts from prepared remarks by governor george w. bush of texas today before boeing workers, as provided by the bush campaign. from the start of this campaign, i have defined some sharp disagreements with the clinton-gore administration. but today i want to address an important area of agreement. a pressing question now confronts the congress, and it will not wait until the next president takes office. following are excerpts from prepared remarks by governor george w. bush of texas today before boeing workers, as provided by the bush campaign. from the start of this campaign, i have defined some sharp disagreements with the clinton-gore administration. but today i want to address an important area of agreement. a pressing question now confronts the congress, and it will not wait until the next president takes office. ''That's why we are here on the ground,'' Mr. Sheaka said. ''Otherwise, I see no reason why Pa Sankoh left the bush and came here.'' After his capture, the locals pounced on him and stripped him of all his clothes, witnesses said. MAYER-Jack. Beloved of Ethel Tucker. Office at 32 Court St., Brooklyn. Services Friday 11AM Sherman's Flatbush Memorial Chapel, 1283 Coney Island Ave. MAYER-Jack. Beloved of Ethel Tucker. Office at 32 Court St., Brooklyn. Services Friday 11AM Sherman's Flatbush Memorial Chapel, 1283 Coney Island Ave. SALSITZ-Felicia ''Fela'' (nee Kluger). Beloved wife of the late Leo (Leibush) Salsitz. Mother of Edwin. Aunt of Eva Wald (with whom she was especially close) and Marla, Stella, Halina, and the late Aryeh. Sister of the late Rosia, Mania, Leon, and Samuel. Born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor, whose parents Asher and Regina, brother Leon, and first husband Leon Finder perished in the Shoah. She was hidden and saved by Jan Nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. She was grateful to start a new life in America. Despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. She will be missed as the matriach of our family in the U.S.A. and Israel. Memorial contributions may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Isreal Medical Center, New York. SALSITZ-Felicia ''Fela'' (nee Kluger). Beloved wife of the late Leo (Leibush) Salsitz. Mother of Edwin. Aunt of Eva Wald (with whom she was especially close) and Marla, Stella, Halina, and the late Aryeh. Sister of the late Rosia, Mania, Leon, and Samuel. Born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor, whose parents Asher and Regina, brother Leon, and first husband Leon Finder perished in the Shoah. She was hidden and saved by Jan Nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. She was grateful to start a new life in America. Despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. She will be missed as the matriach of our family in the U.S.A. and Israel. Memorial contributions may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Isreal Medical Center, New York. ''That's why we are here on the ground,'' Mr. Sheaka said. ''Otherwise, I see no reason why Pa Sankoh left the bush and came here.'' After his capture, the locals pounced on him and stripped him of all his clothes, witnesses said. MAYER-Jack. Beloved of Ethel Tucker. Office at 32 Court St., Brooklyn. Services Friday 11AM Sherman's Flatbush Memorial Chapel, 1283 Coney Island Ave. MAYER-Jack. Beloved of Ethel Tucker. Office at 32 Court St., Brooklyn. Services Friday 11AM Sherman's Flatbush Memorial Chapel, 1283 Coney Island Ave. SALSITZ-Felicia ''Fela'' (nee Kluger). Beloved wife of the late Leo (Leibush) Salsitz. Mother of Edwin. Aunt of Eva Wald (with whom she was especially close) and Marla, Stella, Halina, and the late Aryeh. Sister of the late Rosia, Mania, Leon, and Samuel. Born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor, whose parents Asher and Regina, brother Leon, and first husband Leon Finder perished in the Shoah. She was hidden and saved by Jan Nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. She was grateful to start a new life in America. Despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. She will be missed as the matriach of our family in the U.S.A. and Israel. Memorial contributions may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Isreal Medical Center, New York. SALSITZ-Felicia ''Fela'' (nee Kluger). Beloved wife of the late Leo (Leibush) Salsitz. Mother of Edwin. Aunt of Eva Wald (with whom she was especially close) and Marla, Stella, Halina, and the late Aryeh. Sister of the late Rosia, Mania, Leon, and Samuel. Born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor, whose parents Asher and Regina, brother Leon, and first husband Leon Finder perished in the Shoah. She was hidden and saved by Jan Nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. She was grateful to start a new life in America. Despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. She will be missed as the matriach of our family in the U.S.A. and Israel. Memorial contributions may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Isreal Medical Center, New York. ''That's why we are here on the ground,'' Mr. Sheaka said. ''Otherwise, I see no reason why Pa Sankoh left the bush and came here.'' After his capture, the locals pounced on him and stripped him of all his clothes, witnesses said. MAYER-Jack. Beloved of Ethel Tucker. Office at 32 Court St., Brooklyn. Services Friday 11AM Sherman's Flatbush Memorial Chapel, 1283 Coney Island Ave. MAYER-Jack. Beloved of Ethel Tucker. Office at 32 Court St., Brooklyn. Services Friday 11AM Sherman's Flatbush Memorial Chapel, 1283 Coney Island Ave. SALSITZ-Felicia ''Fela'' (nee Kluger). Beloved wife of the late Leo (Leibush) Salsitz. Mother of Edwin. Aunt of Eva Wald (with whom she was especially close) and Marla, Stella, Halina, and the late Aryeh. Sister of the late Rosia, Mania, Leon, and Samuel. Born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor, whose parents Asher and Regina, brother Leon, and first husband Leon Finder perished in the Shoah. She was hidden and saved by Jan Nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. She was grateful to start a new life in America. Despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. She will be missed as the matriach of our family in the U.S.A. and Israel. Memorial contributions may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Isreal Medical Center, New York. SALSITZ-Felicia ''Fela'' (nee Kluger). Beloved wife of the late Leo (Leibush) Salsitz. Mother of Edwin. Aunt of Eva Wald (with whom she was especially close) and Marla, Stella, Halina, and the late Aryeh. Sister of the late Rosia, Mania, Leon, and Samuel. Born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor, whose parents Asher and Regina, brother Leon, and first husband Leon Finder perished in the Shoah. She was hidden and saved by Jan Nakonieczny, a righteous one among the nations. She was grateful to start a new life in America. Despite the horrors of the past, she was optimistic about the future, and had a warm, giving, energetic and cheerful presence. She will be missed as the matriach of our family in the U.S.A. and Israel. Memorial contributions may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Isreal Medical Center, New York.