 adam clymer article on nbc/wall street journal poll and gallup poll for cnn and usa today showing that gov george w bush leads vice pres al gore by 5 percentage points despite robust economy; notes that the last time president's party lost white house in good times was in 1920; says economy has stayed strong for so long that most people are not worrying about it; says public is giving pres clinton and federal reserve chairman, alan greenspan, credit for way things are, instead of gore, whose weakness as candidate compounds problem (m) the latest numbers offered a stunning contradiction: a 3.9 percent unemployment rate, the lowest in 30 years, and two major national polls showing gov. george w. bush of texas leading vice president al gore by 5 percentage points. the latest numbers offered a stunning contradiction: a 3.9 percent unemployment rate, the lowest in 30 years, and two major national polls showing gov. george w. bush of texas leading vice president al gore by 5 percentage points. so why isn't the booming economy blowing mr. bush away? have the rules changed? first, the economy has stayed strong so long that most people are not worrying about it. peter d. hart, a democratic pollster, said, ''it doesn't sit there as a major worry that people talk about.'' robert teeter, a republican pollster who collaborates with mr. hart on the nbc news/ wall street journal poll, said one reason for bush support among older people was that ''only about 6 percent of the old people have economic worries.'' second, mr. gore does not get credit for the way things are. polls show the public gives it to president clinton and alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board. that may be reasonable enough, but mr. gore's own weakness as a candidate compounds that problem. after all, mr. gore is campaigning on a promise to keep the same economic policies mr. clinton has followed, while mr. bush's central campaign message is that he wants a very big tax cut. but the nbc/journal poll showed that only 27 percent of voters thought mr. gore was very likely or fairly likely to pursue policies that would keep the economy strong, compared to 32 percent who said that of mr. bush. (both of them enjoyed less credence than they did in december, when 36 percent had confidence in mr. gore and 43 percent in mr. bush.) the nbc/journal poll had mr. bush ahead, 46 percent to 41 percent. a gallup poll for cnn and usa today had the bush lead at 49 to 44. both polls were taken the last weekend of april, and the margin of sampling error for the nbc/journal survey was plus or minus three percentage points, one less than for the gallup poll. mr. gore has simply not capitalized on winning his party's nomination more easily than mr. bush won his or achieving quickly the party unity and support from bill bradley that mr. bush is still seeking from senator john mccain. mr. teeter said the data in the nbc/journal poll explained it. ''gore is not a very good candidate,'' he said. ''he is not a very likable candidate.'' mr. teeter argued that mr. gore's frequent attacks on mr. bush ran the risk ''of looking like the guy who is out of his time,'' out of step with an optimistic country. there is no question that the gore message in the summer and fall will emphasize continuity and accuse mr. bush of risking prosperity for a needless tax cut. comparisons with the last republican administration are inevitable, but will have special bite because the phrase ''bush recession'' will surely be used. mr. hart, while conceding mr. gore's weak standing, cited a focus group he conducted last tuesday in a philadelphia suburb as offering hope for mr. gore. everyone in the group of 12, whether he or she favored mr. bush or mr. gore, ''wanted the same policies,'' he said. ''they didn't want to tinker with the economy.'' ''al gore is sitting on a gusher,'' mr. hart said, if he can find a way to identify himself with the voters' desire for continuity. the best evidence that it is not too late for mr. gore comes from a new york times/cbs news poll taken in may 1988. that was the last time a vice president ran to succeed a popular president in an economic boom. gov. michael s. dukakis led vice president george bush, 49 percent to 39 percent. it did not last. other money has been used to hire prominent republican consultants who could help mr. pataki in a future run for national office. for instance, benjamin l. ginsberg, an elections specialist at the washington law firm of patton boggs, whose clients include gov. george w. bush of texas, billed $7,264 in legal fees as recently as march. stephen moore, an economist with the cato institute in washington, received $27,500 for fine-tuning mr. pataki's fiscal proposals, while peggy noonan, a speechwriter for presidents george bush and ronald reagan, was paid $10,000 to polish his words. the festival was started in 1979 by the coalition of asian pacific americans when president jimmy carter designated asian-american heritage week. (president george bush later expanded the designation to encompass the month of may). for many years, it drew several hundred people, most of whom had ties to the 30 or so nonprofit groups that set up booths. these included organizations like the chinatown health clinic and the basement workshop, an arts collective. ''if depth of knowledge about government won elections, then both jimmy carter and walter mondale would've beaten ronald reagan,'' said orin kramer, an adviser to mr. corzine. ''and if political debating skills won elections, michael s. dukakis would've beaten george bush, and mario cuomo would still be governor of new york.'' civic leaders  president clinton  vice president al gore  mayor rudolph w. giuliani  former president george bush  gov. george w. bush  kofi annan, united nations secretary general  madeleine k. albright, secretary of state  andrew m. cuomo, secretary of housing and urban development  senator daniel patrick moynihan  former senator alfonse m. d'amato with vice president and mrs. gore as honorary chairman and chairwoman, a gala performance at the metropolitan opera house at 6:30 tonight opens the 60th season of american ballet theater. the program will feature the new york premiere of twyla tharp's ''variations on a theme by haydn'' and excerpts from the season's full-length ballets and repertory favorites like ''le corsaire,'' ''theme and variations'' and kevin mckenzie's production of ''swan lake.'' information: (212) 362-6000. gov george w bush is slowly developing political dictionary all his own to thwart reporters' demands that he say what he really means; flashes a supermarket tabloid headline stating that he has endorsement of an extraterrestrial; photo (m) gov. george w. bush has never been considered much of a wordsmith. but bit by bit, he is developing a political dictionary all his own. for example, when vice president al gore distorts the texas governor's record and proposals, at least as mr. bush sees it, mr. gore is not ''lying,'' two syllables that never escape mr. bush's lips. rather, mr. gore is behaving in a manner that is ''disappointing,'' four syllables that the governor much prefers and has begun to use ad nauseam. gov. george w. bush has never been considered much of a wordsmith. but bit by bit, he is developing a political dictionary all his own. for example, when vice president al gore distorts the texas governor's record and proposals, at least as mr. bush sees it, mr. gore is not ''lying,'' two syllables that never escape mr. bush's lips. rather, mr. gore is behaving in a manner that is ''disappointing,'' four syllables that the governor much prefers and has begun to use ad nauseam. and while mr. bush, the de facto republican presidential nominee, says that he will soon identify numerous ways in which the government can save money, none of these plans will be ''cuts,'' a four-letter word that the candidate avoids. they will be ''savings'' that make the government more ''efficient'' -- kinder, gentler terms. it is a name game all the more interesting for the fact that mr. bush, with little smiles and wiggles of his eyebrows, wholly acknowledges that he is playing it. and this unspoken but unmistakable admission has precipitated endless rounds of semantic jousting between mr. bush and reporters, who are constantly trying to get him to say what he clearly means. ''i'm just disappointed,'' mr. bush said, with a ''nice-try'' twinkle and grin. ''i think that's the word i'd like to use. it's a disappointing thing.'' mr. bush, a savvy enough candidate, understands that in politics, diction establishes tone, and tone is everything. and he turns to euphemisms to resolve inherent tensions in his campaign, like his pledge to run a positive race and his simultaneous resolve to wage an aggressive fight that exposes what he believes to be mr. gore's shortcomings. he did the same thing in the primaries, watering down the nouns and verbs he used to describe and disparage his principal opponent, senator john mccain of arizona. mr. bush's mantra at the time was that mr. mccain ''says one thing and does another.'' mr. bush flinched at the mere suggestion. no, he said, it made the senator a man practiced in the ways of ''washington,'' a word that was perhaps dirtier but much less explicitly mean-spirited. throughout the republican primaries, the bush campaign trumpeted seemingly any and every endorsement, whether it came from the governor of a large state or the secretary of a small sewing circle. but last week, the bush campaign took that tendency to the outer limits. mr. bush showed reporters in the back of his campaign plane a recent copy of weekly world news, a supermarket tabloid, with a cover story on the extraterrestrial support he was receiving. the front page featured a photograph of the governor standing beside an oblong, hairless, vaguely reptilian space alien. and as mr. bush noted, his alien encounter was further proof of his commitment to expanding the republican party's appeal. the exchange also went to show what a prankster and funnyman mr. bush fancies himself, a persona on vivid display last week. mr. gore was hurling accusations and put-downs in the governor's direction, and mr. bush was laughing, establishing a contrast that may not have been accidental in the least. but mr. bush said the man was really ''mooning authority.'' the governor seemed a bit less sanguine when the topic turned to a profile, in a major magazine, of the campaign's chief strategist, karl rove. mr. bush has a thing about advisers eclipsing the candidates they serve. and he jokingly wondered what he should expect next: a playgirl magazine pictorial of his campaign manager, joe allbaugh? mr. allbaugh is older and burlier than a typical centerfold, but mr. bush had a vision. william safire op-ed column on recent gridiron dinner and white house correspondents association dinner in washington at which members of political establishment, notably pres clinton and vice pres gore, were roasted (m) consider the performances this year of clinton and gore. if you watched tv last week -- from interviews with emcee jay leno to televised excerpts released by the white house on news programs everywhere -- you saw highlights of the undeniably boffo show put on at the w.h.c.a. dinner by the president. by contrast (and both are democrats, so this is a nonpartisan analysis), gore at the gridiron emulated a style perfected two generations ago by john kennedy at a memorable al smith memorial dinner in new york. hard to believe, but gore, like j.f.k., played to the people in the room with an unexpectedly light touch, using lines attuned to his politically sensitive audience. everyone present knew that gore's greatest campaign vulnerability is his denial of prior knowledge about illegal fund-raising. many in the audience were aware he had claimed to have been out of the room when his aides were discussing this; he had even suggested he may have been off to the john after drinking a lot of iced tea. few accept this. so gore reportedly stepped to the lectern and asked for a glass of iced tea. small laugh. he took the glass and slowly drained it all the way to the bottom, as the tittering grew. then he carefully returned the glass to the waiter and delivered the punch line: ''i can't stay long.'' that went over as nicely suggestive but clean, topically pointed and disarmingly self-directed. just as clinton's ''you forgot your lunch!'' was designed to elicit a belly laugh from a national audience, gore's ''i can't stay long'' was intended to induce a grudgingly appreciative chuckle from an opinion-molding audience. still, mr. gates might do well to pay attention, says clayton m. christensen, the harvard business school professor who coined the phrase. his book, ''the innovator's dilemma: when new technologies cause great firms to fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. it describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. still, mr. gates might do well to pay attention, says clayton m. christensen, the harvard business school professor who coined the phrase. his book, ''the innovator's dilemma: when new technologies cause great firms to fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. it describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. kafko-harold j. passed away may 7, 2000. devoted husband of alyce. beloved father of steven, marsha, neil and donna. loving grandfather of michelle, craig, david, rebecca and salley. funeral services will be held tuesday, may 9, at 11:30 am at parkside memorial chapel, 2576 flatbush ave., near ave. v, brooklyn. interment to follow at the new montefiore cemetery. kafko-harold j. passed away may 7, 2000. devoted husband of alyce. beloved father of steven, marsha, neil and donna. loving grandfather of michelle, craig, david, rebecca and salley. funeral services will be held tuesday, may 9, at 11:30 am at parkside memorial chapel, 2576 flatbush ave., near ave. v, brooklyn. interment to follow at the new montefiore cemetery. Still, Mr. Gates might do well to pay attention, says Clayton M. Christensen, the Harvard Business School professor who coined the phrase. His book, ''The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. It describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. Still, Mr. Gates might do well to pay attention, says Clayton M. Christensen, the Harvard Business School professor who coined the phrase. His book, ''The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. It describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. KAFKO-Harold J. Passed away May 7, 2000. Devoted husband of Alyce. Beloved father of Steven, Marsha, Neil and Donna. Loving grandfather of Michelle, Craig, David, Rebecca and Salley. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 9, at 11:30 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., near Ave. V, Brooklyn. Interment to follow at the New Montefiore Cemetery. KAFKO-Harold J. Passed away May 7, 2000. Devoted husband of Alyce. Beloved father of Steven, Marsha, Neil and Donna. Loving grandfather of Michelle, Craig, David, Rebecca and Salley. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 9, at 11:30 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., near Ave. V, Brooklyn. Interment to follow at the New Montefiore Cemetery. Still, Mr. Gates might do well to pay attention, says Clayton M. Christensen, the Harvard Business School professor who coined the phrase. His book, ''The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. It describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. Still, Mr. Gates might do well to pay attention, says Clayton M. Christensen, the Harvard Business School professor who coined the phrase. His book, ''The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. It describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. KAFKO-Harold J. Passed away May 7, 2000. Devoted husband of Alyce. Beloved father of Steven, Marsha, Neil and Donna. Loving grandfather of Michelle, Craig, David, Rebecca and Salley. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 9, at 11:30 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., near Ave. V, Brooklyn. Interment to follow at the New Montefiore Cemetery. KAFKO-Harold J. Passed away May 7, 2000. Devoted husband of Alyce. Beloved father of Steven, Marsha, Neil and Donna. Loving grandfather of Michelle, Craig, David, Rebecca and Salley. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 9, at 11:30 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., near Ave. V, Brooklyn. Interment to follow at the New Montefiore Cemetery. Still, Mr. Gates might do well to pay attention, says Clayton M. Christensen, the Harvard Business School professor who coined the phrase. His book, ''The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. It describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. Still, Mr. Gates might do well to pay attention, says Clayton M. Christensen, the Harvard Business School professor who coined the phrase. His book, ''The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail,'' has been causing a stir at technology companies since it was published in 1997. It describes how leading companies are ambushed by new products. KAFKO-Harold J. Passed away May 7, 2000. Devoted husband of Alyce. Beloved father of Steven, Marsha, Neil and Donna. Loving grandfather of Michelle, Craig, David, Rebecca and Salley. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 9, at 11:30 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., near Ave. V, Brooklyn. Interment to follow at the New Montefiore Cemetery. KAFKO-Harold J. Passed away May 7, 2000. Devoted husband of Alyce. Beloved father of Steven, Marsha, Neil and Donna. Loving grandfather of Michelle, Craig, David, Rebecca and Salley. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 9, at 11:30 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., near Ave. V, Brooklyn. Interment to follow at the New Montefiore Cemetery.