 greg norman, who started the final round tied for 50th place, withdrew because he had a meeting today with gov. jeb bush of florida. . . . tiger woods's five-stroke victory was the widest winning margin on tour since paul azinger won the sony open in hawaii by seven strokes in january. the thrift savings plan was essentially an adaption for federal workers of various retirement plans, principally the 401(k), as it is known, which were passing the tax committees in the 1970's and 1980's. in the senate it emerged from the government affairs committee. al gore, then a senator and a member of the committee, said on july 30, 1985, ''an employee savings plan with government matching funds will give every worker the opportunity to supplement a defined and predictable pension amount.'' he praised a congressional research service report, ''civil service retirement: capital accumulation plans for federal employees.'' vice pres al gore commemorates memorial day in elizabeth, pa, where he recounts his own military experiences in vietnam and complex web of emotions, from patriotism to family devotion to guilt, that caused him to enlist three decades ago; gov george w bush attends memorial event in killeen, tex, home of fort hood; photos (m) vice president al gore commemorated the nation's war dead today by recounting his own military experiences in vietnam and the complex web of emotions, from patriotism to family devotion to guilt, that caused him to enlist three decades ago. in a speech before several hundred people gathered for a memorial day ceremony here, mr. gore acknowledged that his five months in vietnam as an army reporter had not been the most grueling or dangerous, saying, ''i know that my service doesn't in any way match that of the heroes we honor on this day.'' vice president al gore commemorated the nation's war dead today by recounting his own military experiences in vietnam and the complex web of emotions, from patriotism to family devotion to guilt, that caused him to enlist three decades ago. in a speech before several hundred people gathered for a memorial day ceremony here, mr. gore acknowledged that his five months in vietnam as an army reporter had not been the most grueling or dangerous, saying, ''i know that my service doesn't in any way match that of the heroes we honor on this day.'' but his time in a combat zone taught him much about sacrifice, honor and loyalty among soldiers, he said in a speech largely devoid of policy, politics or any mention of his republican rival, gov. george w. bush. governor bush, who was a fighter pilot in the texas air national guard during the vietnam war, attended another memorial day event, delivering brief remarks that were less personal than mr. gore's but that also steered mostly clear of politics and the presidential campaign. for mr. gore, the deeply personal speech today fit into a broader effort by his campaign to reintroduce him to voters through television commercials, speeches and other events that highlight his biography. later this week he is to promote cancer programs by discussing the death of his sister, nancy, of lung cancer. although he opposed the war in vietnam, mr. gore enlisted in the army just two months after graduating from harvard in 1969. friends have said he signed up in part to protect his father, senator albert gore, an antiwar democrat who was running for re-election, from criticism by republicans who supported the war effort. that was a factor to which one longtime associate of the vice president referred in the ceremonies today. but in his own talk here, mr. gore offered another reason for enlisting, suggesting that he could not have faced the guilt in knowing that some other young man from his tennessee town had gone in his place, and perhaps been killed. mr. gore described feeling disillusioned upon returning to a nation that was ambivalent, and sometimes hostile, toward vietnam veterans. that disillusionment, he said, kept him from running for public office for several years. as for mr. bush, who spent much of the last month trying to bolster his foreign-policy credentials with proposals related to national defense and remarks on international affairs, he made only the slightest detour in that direction today, calling anew for the development of a vast national defense against ballistic missiles. both mr. gore and defense secretary william s. cohen have recently questioned the prudence of his call for a system much larger than the limited defense the clinton administration has proposed. mr. bush reiterated his own position in a context of a general plea for strengthening the country's armed forces. similarly, mr. gore said his time living in a trailer park with his wife, tipper, while he was in training in alabama had taught him about the need to improve the pay, benefits and housing of active-duty military personnel. and both men said that while it was important to pay tribute to war service with monuments and medals, it was even more important to share with young americans the details of sacrifice. ''we must pass stories of american courage and character to the next generation, to capture their imaginations, to raise a monument in their hearts,'' mr. bush said. ''this is the way our democracy renews its promise: by celebrating american heroes and american values without hesitation and without apology.'' and mr. gore, quoting president john f. kennedy, said, ''democracy is a call to untiring effort, to continual sacrifice and to the willingness if necessary to die in its defense.'' resting together on the largely vacant steps of the main branch of the new york public library, two retired women from flatbush, brooklyn, who had walked uptown after shopping, made their guesses. russia: rebels attack -- chechen rebels have apparently begun a broad offensive against russian troops, and, by their accounts, killed 40 soldiers in an ambush in the grozny suburb of aldi. russian forces stand accused of conducting a killing and looting rampage in aldi last february that residents say left at least 80 civilians dead. russian officials denied rebel casualty reports, but said the situation in chechnya is ''tense and difficult.'' us labor movement is again powerful political force, despite loss in bruising battle over china trade bill; : provided important political muscle that helped vice pres al gore lock up democratic presidential nomination, and is certain to be major force for democratic party in fall; has displayed considerable political muscle on capitol hill, blocking legislation to grant president fast-track authority to negotiate trade agreements and pushing through higher minimum-wage and family and medical leave act; white-collar workers are flocking into unions as never before, and much of rebound is attributed to efforts of afl-cio president john j sweeney, who was elected in 1996 on platform of reviving labor after membership and influence slipped steadily for two decades; union membership jumped 265,000 in 1999, by far largest rise since 1970's; photo (m) unions provided important political muscle that helped vice president al gore locked up the democratic presidential nomination, and they are certain to be a major force for the democratic party in the fall. unions provided important political muscle that helped vice president al gore locked up the democratic presidential nomination, and they are certain to be a major force for the democratic party in the fall. the labor federation's endorsement of vice president gore gave him much-needed assistance in the democratic presidential primaries, with union foot soldiers helping him trounce former senator bill bradley in the iowa caucuses and capture the new hampshire primary. judge uri goren of the tel aviv district court said he would rule on july 12 on the cases of sheik abdel karim obeid of hezbollah, or party of god, and mustafa dirani of the amal movement, who have been held without trial since they were forcibly taken from lebanon. judge uri goren of the tel aviv district court said he would rule on july 12 on the cases of sheik abdel karim obeid of hezbollah, or party of god, and mustafa dirani of the amal movement, who have been held without trial since they were forcibly taken from lebanon. judge goren ruled that given ''the newness of the issue'' and in order to examine further arguments made today, he would decide the case on july 12. until then, he said, the guerrilla leaders will remain in jail. paying tribute to war dead  vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush commemorated the nation's war dead in speeches that mostly avoided politics. mr. gore recounted some of his own military experiences in vietnam and discussed reasons behind his enlistment. Resting together on the largely vacant steps of the main branch of the New York Public Library, two retired women from Flatbush, Brooklyn, who had walked uptown after shopping, made their guesses. RUSSIA: REBELS ATTACK -- Chechen rebels have apparently begun a broad offensive against Russian troops, and, by their accounts, killed 40 soldiers in an ambush in the Grozny suburb of Aldi. Russian forces stand accused of conducting a killing and looting rampage in Aldi last February that residents say left at least 80 civilians dead. Russian officials denied rebel casualty reports, but said the situation in Chechnya is ''tense and difficult.'' Resting together on the largely vacant steps of the main branch of the New York Public Library, two retired women from Flatbush, Brooklyn, who had walked uptown after shopping, made their guesses. RUSSIA: REBELS ATTACK -- Chechen rebels have apparently begun a broad offensive against Russian troops, and, by their accounts, killed 40 soldiers in an ambush in the Grozny suburb of Aldi. Russian forces stand accused of conducting a killing and looting rampage in Aldi last February that residents say left at least 80 civilians dead. Russian officials denied rebel casualty reports, but said the situation in Chechnya is ''tense and difficult.'' Resting together on the largely vacant steps of the main branch of the New York Public Library, two retired women from Flatbush, Brooklyn, who had walked uptown after shopping, made their guesses. RUSSIA: REBELS ATTACK -- Chechen rebels have apparently begun a broad offensive against Russian troops, and, by their accounts, killed 40 soldiers in an ambush in the Grozny suburb of Aldi. Russian forces stand accused of conducting a killing and looting rampage in Aldi last February that residents say left at least 80 civilians dead. Russian officials denied rebel casualty reports, but said the situation in Chechnya is ''tense and difficult.''