 hillary rodham clinton finished her tour through each of the state's 62 counties today with a sharp attack on george w. bush's tax cut proposals, leaving her mostly republican audience in silence. hillary rodham clinton finished her tour through each of the state's 62 counties today with a sharp attack on george w. bush's tax cut proposals, leaving her mostly republican audience in silence. in outlining her opposition to mr. bush's call for a $1.3 trillion tax cut over 10 years, mrs. clinton said his plan would hurt efforts to win more federal money for new york because such broad-based tax reductions would deplete the surplus. ''i cannot support governor bush's large across-the-board tax cut,'' mrs. clinton said. ''i do not think that's right for new york or our country. the last thing we need right now before we can eliminate some of that deficit with washington is a large across-the-board tax cut.'' mrs. clinton's audience enthusiastically applauded her speech until she suggested tax cuts smaller than those favored by mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential candidate. many in the audience stopped practically in midclap, in apparent disagreement. mr. clinton addressed high school students at city academy here as part of a two-day tour of public schools in kentucky, iowa, minnesota and ohio, in which he is pushing his own education proposals and those of vice president al gore, the likely democratic presidential candidate. mr. clinton addressed high school students at city academy here as part of a two-day tour of public schools in kentucky, iowa, minnesota and ohio, in which he is pushing his own education proposals and those of vice president al gore, the likely democratic presidential candidate. both mr. clinton and mr. gore have been pushing plans that would punish schools that are given more money but continue to fail, in response to republican criticism that they have poured more and more money into education programs without insisting on results. george w. bush -- san diego al gore -- holt and lansing, mich.; morgantown, w. va.; farmington, pa. george w. bush -- san diego al gore -- holt and lansing, mich.; morgantown, w. va.; farmington, pa. luka-darda falasha conrad yaacov. on may 2, 2000. funeral service at i.j. morris, 1895 flatbush avenue, (ave l & k) bklyn, n.y. 718-377-8610 on monday, may 8th, 10:30am. interment calverton cemetery, calverton, l.i. for further information, please call 917-219-2517 luka-darda falasha conrad yaacov. on may 2, 2000. funeral service at i.j. morris, 1895 flatbush avenue, (ave l & k) bklyn, n.y. 718-377-8610 on monday, may 8th, 10:30am. interment calverton cemetery, calverton, l.i. for further information, please call 917-219-2517 gov george w bush's 18-year-old twin daughters, barbara and jenna, have so far been spared public spotlight; bush family has been remarkably successful at preserving girls' privacy; photo (m) monday was decision day for many high school seniors choosing colleges, but it came and went without so much as a peep from the bush campaign about the destinations of gov. george w. bush's twin 18-year-old daughters, barbara and jenna. how far from home would they be straying? the texas governor's aides were silent. what factors had the girls' final selection hinged on? mum was the word. aides acknowledged that the information would probably trickle out soon enough, through an unguarded utterance by mr. bush or an offhand comment by an official at one of the schools. but for just a bit longer, the family wanted to try to preserve the girls' privacy. monday was decision day for many high school seniors choosing colleges, but it came and went without so much as a peep from the bush campaign about the destinations of gov. george w. bush's twin 18-year-old daughters, barbara and jenna. how far from home would they be straying? the texas governor's aides were silent. what factors had the girls' final selection hinged on? mum was the word. aides acknowledged that the information would probably trickle out soon enough, through an unguarded utterance by mr. bush or an offhand comment by an official at one of the schools. but for just a bit longer, the family wanted to try to preserve the girls' privacy. the bush family has been remarkably successful at that, so much so that while mr. bush could become the next president and while his extended family is beginning to look an awful lot like a political dynasty, his two daughters are almost invisible, their faces unknown to 99.9 percent of voters outside texas and their public sightings only slightly more frequent than bigfoot's. ''from the time he was elected governor, we've had a policy that the girls are not interviewed and not photographed,'' said karen p. hughes, the communications director for the bush campaign and a senior adviser to mr. bush since 1994. far from being out of the ordinary, the daughters' anonymity immediately recalls that of chelsea clinton during her father's first presidential campaign, in 1992, and is shared to a degree by the three younger gore children. (the oldest, karenna gore schiff, 26, has a public role as an adviser to her father's presidential campaign.) mr. bush has similarly benefited from news organizations' voluntary restraint. austin is not so big a place, and there are reporters whose children -- or whose friends' children -- attend the same public high school from which barbara and jenna bush will be graduating this month. but the fruits of that familiarity have not found their way onto television or into newspapers. similarly, mr. bush trusts reporters on his campaign plane to be cognizant of, and to respect, his wishes that his daughters remain journalistically off-limits, and he thus talks somewhat freely about them on occasion and even mentioned, several times, the kinds of colleges each daughter was considering. the personal-biography section of mr. bush's web site digresses to mention, ''governor and mrs. bush have worked hard to protect their daughters' privacy. they attend public school in austin but do not give interviews and only appear at public events if they want to.'' in public, mr. bush walks a carefully but not always consistently drawn line. he sporadically delights audiences with a fleeting, vague riff on the agonies and ecstasies of fatherhood and repeatedly mentions that barbara and jenna go to a public high school. but he generally furnishes no more specifics about them than about the family's six-toed cat, ernie. there are exceptions to this reticence, the most conspicuous one being a chapter of his autobiography, ''a charge to keep'' (william morrow & company, 1999), in which mr. bush discusses his support for the death penalty. he divulges that one daughter -- he does not say which -- told him over the dinner table that she disagrees with him. mr. bush and his wife, laura, have said repeatedly that they want barbara and jenna, fraternal twins who are the couple's only children, to be affected by their father's political celebrity as little as possible. and they behaved as teenagers typically do, bowing to the latest pop-cultural fashions and sometimes remarking on how unfashionable their father was. in interviews with texas journalists in the past, mrs. bush bemoaned that the girls's television-watching habits, at least a few years ago, included ''beverly hills 90210'' and ''melrose place,'' and noted that they would sometimes stop their father before he walked out the door, questioning his choice of attire. even as a governor's children, they were not constantly escorted or monitored by guards, but security around the entire family tightened earlier this year with the arrival of the secret service, much to the girls chagrin, an aide to mr. bush said. according to the aide and several of mr. bush's friends, the girls' low public profile reflects their own desires as much as their parents' efforts. for example, barbara and jenna bush briefly considered accompanying their parents to the polls in texas for the republican primary; it was, after all, the first election cycle in which the girls were old enough to vote. one of mr. bush's advisers said barbara and jenna bush had learned early on that even the most seemingly harmless exposure could yield accidental humiliation. about six years ago, when a television crew shot footage of the bushes decorating their christmas tree, the telephone rang and mr. bush joked that it might be a boy who liked jenna. when the story was broadcast, it included both that comment and jenna's mortified reaction. but the grades have also been used for more drastic measures. florida legislators voted to give private-school vouchers to students at schools that receive f's for two years out of four. the state is appealing a court decision that ruled the vouchers, but not the grading, unconstitutional. in a speech outlining his presidential campaign pledges on education, gov. george w. bush of texas proposed grading all schools and stripping some federal financing from those that received low grades for three years. it has become the daily tit for tat of the presidential contest. vice president al gore calls gov. george w. bush reckless, irresponsible, profligate or arrogant. and mr. bush calmly replies that the vice president is like an addict when it comes to distorting the truth. if this kind of acrid exchange seems vaguely familiar, there is good reason: during the democratic primary campaign, mr. gore relentlessly attacked the proposals of former senator bill bradley as risky and expensive. and mr. bradley calmly replied that the vice president was addicted to distorting the truth. it has become the daily tit for tat of the presidential contest. vice president al gore calls gov. george w. bush reckless, irresponsible, profligate or arrogant. and mr. bush calmly replies that the vice president is like an addict when it comes to distorting the truth. if this kind of acrid exchange seems vaguely familiar, there is good reason: during the democratic primary campaign, mr. gore relentlessly attacked the proposals of former senator bill bradley as risky and expensive. and mr. bradley calmly replied that the vice president was addicted to distorting the truth. mr. gore's harshly aggressive strategy worked just fine in the primaries, where democratic voters who had initially seemed interested in mr. bradley abandoned him in droves. but the vice president is now engaged in a very different race against a very different opponent, who is considered quite adept at thrust-and-parry politics, and the question is, can it work again? many people have their doubts. though it may seem logical for mr. gore to try to bathe his less well known opponent in a negative light, the strategy carries clear risks, say independent analysts and some democrats as well. for one thing, mr. gore is now playing to an audience very different from that of the primary campaign. back then he was talking to largely sympathetic crowds of democrats. now he must court swing voters who are likely to be more skeptical of his credibility and less accepting of his attacks on mr. bush. taken too far, the attacks could make him appear unpleasant, overly partisan, mean-spirited and untrustworthy to the very independent and crossover voters he is courting. even some democrats seem to think that mr. gore's attacks occasionally go over the top. on wednesday, mr. gore accused mr. bush of devising a ''secret'' social security ''privatization'' plan that would bankrupt the system. today senator daniel patrick moynihan, a new york democrat who supports investing some of the social security trust fund in private markets, took issue with the word ''privatization.'' another danger for mr. gore is that voters will perceive his criticisms of mr. bush as personal. mr. gore's aides argue that his attacks are aimed solely at mr. bush's record and proposals. (today alone, the vice president blasted mr. bush's positions on the census, managed care and gun control.) but the adjectives the vice president has used in describing mr. bush's policies -- ''reckless,'' ''risky,'' ''irresponsible,'' ''smug,'' ''arrogant,'' ''noticeably blank'' -- also seem intended to raise questions about the governor's character, intellect and competence, many analysts say. they note that mr. gore used similarly loaded words against mr. bradley, suggesting that he was an aloof elitist who viewed politics as ''an intellectual exercise.'' the gore campaign seems to be trying to exploit the opposite with mr. bush, who, unlike mr. bradley, a rhodes scholar, is viewed by his critics as lacking intellectual depth on complex issues, particularly foreign affairs. mr. gore said today that he was not particularly worried that he  might be creating negative impressions among voters. and he defended his recent use of the words ''smug'' and ''arrogant,'' turning away a suggestion that they had been meant to convey something about mr. bush's character. ''they're a commentary on the assumption that is at the heart of his campaign: that you as journalists and the american people as voters are not entitled to know the details of his private secret plan to privatize social security,'' mr. gore said. democratic strategists argue that mr. gore may have little choice but to attack so vigorously and so early in the campaign, as he did against mr. bradley. for one thing, he is trailing mr. bush, although by small margins, in most polls, including those in customarily democratic states like washington and west virginia. and because he is so well known, many voters already hold relatively fixed opinions of him, as many bad as good, most polls show. in contrast, mr. bush, despite his famous name, remains something of a mystery to voters outside texas. so mr. gore, the reasoning goes, needs to define his rival as a risky, out-of-the-mainstream alternative. that was the very strategy that mr. bush's father, also a two-term vice president at the time, used with  great success 12 years ago against another governor running for president, michael s. dukakis of massachusetts. ''if you become viewed as a risk, as michael dukakis was in 1988, it is a very tough road to get back from,'' said susan estrich, who managed mr. dukakis's campaign. ''if al gore can raise questions about bush, bush may never get off the ground. so gore will just keep doing it.'' but ms. estrich praised mr. bush's ability to roll with mr. gore's punches and, in the process, make him seem like a negative politician. ''it seems to be working,'' she said of the governor's approach. ''he's up.'' in adopting mr. bradley's strategy of calling mr. gore dishonest, bush aides have also appropriated one of mr. bradley's sharpest debate lines, which they often strip across news releases: ''why should we believe you would tell the truth as president if you don't tell the truth as a candidate?'' but mr. bush is also a candidate far different from mr. bradley, with a campaign quicker in its responses to the vice president's blasts. on tuesday, for instance, mr. gore asserted that criminal recidivism rates in texas had increased significantly during the bush administration; within hours, mr. bush's press office had issued its own statistics rebutting the charge. mr. bradley's campaign sometimes let days go by before responding to attacks. and on wednesday, after mr. gore's social security attack, mr. bush spent much of a flight to california giving reporters a spirited, point-by-point response to many of mr. gore's recent accusations. that high-altitude news conference underscored what many republicans say are mr. bush's greatest  strengths as a campaigner: his sunny persona, his humor and his ability to cloak tart retorts in genial language. those traits, republicans say, make mr. gore seem all the more stiff and mean-spirited by comparison. ''by going into attack mode so early, and by repeating this mantra that everything bush proposes is a risky scheme, al gore plays into george bush's hands on the personality comparison,'' said q. whitfield ayres, a republican pollster. ''george bush comes across in that case as a likable, decent guy, and al gore comes across as a whining, yapping little dog.'' yet there is a certain logic, some analysts say, to mr. gore's efforts at harshly undermining mr. bush, and doing so sooner rather than later. ''gore didn't stop bradley's forward momentum overnight,'' said andrew kohut, director of the nonpartisan pew research center for the people and the press. ''you have to lay the groundwork. ''some strong words about bush'' in recent weeks vice president al gore has used a variety of derisive words, including ''risky,'' ''irresponsible,'' ''smug'' and ''reckless,'' to characterize the proposals of gov. george w. bush. here is a sampling. march 16 -- ''governor bush's tax scheme is so risky, so reckless, that just yesterday the republican-controlled house of representatives, given an opportunity to vote for it, turned it down, turned the other way, said, 'we don't want to even cast a vote on that thing.' '' april 30 -- ''just this past week, governor bush used his brief meeting with russian foreign minister ivanov to issue a warning that his intention would be to build and deploy a global star wars system that he believes could defend the u.s. and all our allies against any missile launch from any source. in the 1990's, most serious analysts took a look at the implausibility of this endeavor, the fantastical price that our taxpayers would be expected to pay and the dangerously destabilizing consequences of traveling down that path and rejected this notion. governor bush wishes to return to it, and chose the worst possible venue in which to launch, for lack of a better phrase, his risky foreign policy scheme.'' may 3 -- ''how does the bush plan propose to deal with the bankruptcy of social security that his privatization scheme would cause? he doesn't even bother to provide an answer. he just smiles and goes on with the smug assumption that there's no need to share with you the details of what he wants to do.'' * ''american psycho,'' starring christian bale. directed by mary harron (r, 104 minutes). ms. harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of bret easton ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. the movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by mr. bale as patrick bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's wall street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. reese witherspoon, chloe sevigny, samantha mathis and cara seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. the movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (stephen holden). * ''american psycho,'' starring christian bale. directed by mary harron (r, 104 minutes). ms. harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of bret easton ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. the movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by mr. bale as patrick bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's wall street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. reese witherspoon, chloe sevigny, samantha mathis and cara seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. the movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (stephen holden). russia: ambush reported -- the russian military said its special forces ambushed and killed at least 18 chechen rebels southeast of grozny. the report could not be confirmed, but if true it could signal a shift in russian tactics. russians have relied on armor and air power to press their assault; ambushes have been the rebels' most successful tactic. vice pres al gore continues his intensive assault against gov george w bush's poliices, saying bush has been inordinately influenced by national rifle assn and has proposed inadequate health care plan that 'offers too little for too few at the expense of too many'; photo (m) vice president al gore continued his intensive assault against gov. george w. bush's policies today, saying his republican rival had been inordinately influenced by the national rifle association and had proposed an inadequate health care plan that ''offers too little for too few at the expense of too many.'' but when asked later by reporters about mr. bush's comments that mr. gore's attacks were having a corrosive influence on the political process, mr. gore refused to respond directly, saying the nation deserved a vigorous debate on the issues. vice president al gore continued his intensive assault against gov. george w. bush's policies today, saying his republican rival had been inordinately influenced by the national rifle association and had proposed an inadequate health care plan that ''offers too little for too few at the expense of too many.'' but when asked later by reporters about mr. bush's comments that mr. gore's attacks were having a corrosive influence on the political process, mr. gore refused to respond directly, saying the nation deserved a vigorous debate on the issues. mr. gore had intended to deliver a health care speech here, since he was addressing the inaugural meeting of the association of health care journalists, at northwestern university memorial hospital. but his aides said he had been captivated by reports in the morning newspapers that suggested that the gun lobby was thrilled at the prospect of a bush presidency, and mr. gore rewrote his speech as he flew here this morning from washington to draw attention to those reports. the new york times reported that gun manufacturers had broken off settlement talks with 31 cities and counties in hopes that a bush administration would be more sympathetic than the clinton administration has been. and the washington post reported that kayne robinson, first vice president of the n.r.a., had said in a speech to members in february that if mr. bush was elected, the gun lobby would expect to have ''a president where we work out of their office.'' handgun control inc., a lobbying group, began running a 30-second television commercial today that uses videotape of the speech and attacks mr. bush as a pawn of the national rifle association. in his speech, mr. gore said, ''governor bush has convinced the n.r.a. that he wants to take the gun lobbyists out of the lobby and put them right into the oval office.'' mr. gore's point was that gun violence, apart from killing people, was straining the nation's health care system, to the tune of $2.3 billion annually, according to the journal of the american medical association, and that mr. bush was so deeply in the pocket of the gun lobby that he could not recognize this problem. mr. bush dismissed those accusations. ''i make my positions on what i think is right,'' he said at a news conference in orange county, calif. ''if this is an attempt by my opponent to frighten people, i'm not going to let that happen.'' asked about mr. robinson's speech, mr. bush said: ''i don't want to disappoint the man, but i'll be setting up shop in the white house. it'll be my office. i'll make the decision as to what goes on in the white house.'' repeating an accusation he has made before, mr. bush said: ''i want to say something: i've never been a member of the n.r.a. i think al gore's been a member of the n.r.a., if i'm not mistaken.'' this accusation momentarily befuddled both campaigns, neither of which could find evidence that mr. gore had belonged to the gun lobby. scott mcclellan, a spokesman for mr. bush, said the governor might have been referring to a time magazine article this year that quoted an n.r.a. official as saying mr. gore, who represented rural tennessee in congress, had once been so opposed to gun control that he could have been the poster boy for it. mr. mcclellan said of mr. gore, ''i guess he never got around to paying his dues.'' asked whether mr. bush had misspoken, mr. mcclellan said, ''i'll leave it at that.'' chris lehane, a spokesman for mr. gore, said: ''the campaign has no record of al gore being a member of the n.r.a.'' gore aides said mr. gore might have inadvertently become a member through a magazine subscription or some other organization. ''the burden of proof is on bush,'' mr. lehane said. ''he ought to be held to the same standards on distortions that you guys are holding the gore campaign to.'' mr. bush again said mr. gore was distorting his record and ''saying things that simply are not true.'' ''it's amazing that a person running for president of the united states would look people in the eye and say i've never submitted budgets as governor and continue to say so when i did,'' mr. bush said. at a news conference, mr. gore declined to respond to mr. bush's accusations that he was not being factual. but the vice president, who has said mr. bush has never put together a real budget, brought that up again. he said he happened to have in his pocket what he said was a copy of mr. bush's 1995 budget. he handed it to a reporter, saying, ''if you think that's a budget, then maybe i can convince you it's a duck.'' praise for the cardinal came from president clinton, gov. george e. pataki, the rev. billy graham, the presidential rivals gov. george w. bush of texas and vice president al gore, the senate rivals mayor rudolph w. giuliani and hillary rodham clinton, united nations secretary general kofi annan and many others. in general they were much the same, with phrases about the cardinal's ''eloquent voice,'' and ''courage, selflessness and devotion to duty.'' legally, describing the terror and gore might have been skipped, because the defense does not dispute that the plane crashed and people died. thomas l friedman foreign affairs column on vice pres gore's questioning whether gov george bush has the experience, the gravitas and, 'by implication, the brains' to run us foreign policy; suggests that gore's question raises a question about gore himself, observing that while bush may not have the brains to always do the right thing, there may be a question of whether gore has the spine (m) al gore delivered a provocative foreign policy speech sunday that raised an important question: does george w. bush have the experience, the gravitas and, by implication, the brains to run u.s. foreign policy? if not, said mr. gore, one can only assume that ''the gaps in governor bush's foreign policy views and experience will be filled by the ideologies and inveterate antipathies of his party -- the right-wing, partisan isolationism of the republican congressional leadership.'' al gore delivered a provocative foreign policy speech sunday that raised an important question: does george w. bush have the experience, the gravitas and, by implication, the brains to run u.s. foreign policy? if not, said mr. gore, one can only assume that ''the gaps in governor bush's foreign policy views and experience will be filled by the ideologies and inveterate antipathies of his party -- the right-wing, partisan isolationism of the republican congressional leadership.'' now this is a legitimate question. mr. bush has no experience in foreign policy, the well-displayed gaps in his knowledge suggest he may not have even read the newspaper much, and this could make him easy prey for the foreign policy ideologues in his party. but in raising this question mr. gore, inadvertently, raises a question about himself -- a question that many people who respect him have been asking. if you talk to al gore about geopolitics, the internet or the global economy, you leave feeling he really does get it. but what good are brains if you don't always act on them? mr. bush may not have the brains to always do the right thing, but does mr. gore have the spine? most of mr. gore's speech was a serious appeal for an activist, internationalist u.s. foreign policy -- something that, in fairness, mr. bush would also pursue. so what was legitimate in mr. gore's critique of mr. bush? it's the charge that the internationalism mr. bush offers often sounds like a we-will-do-whatever-we-want-because-we're-the-only-superpower-and-i-am-not-a-wimp-like-clinton set of policies, which, if adopted at once, could be destabilizing and would have virtually no allied support. the best thing you can say is that mr. bush doesn't really mean some of this stuff. but what if he does? if it were his father, the former president, you know that he would do the prudent thing. but we don't know that with george w., and when you look at his own party's willingness to be led around by the fringe views of jesse helms, well, mr. gore is right to ask: is george w. his father's son or his advisers' captive? but as for mr. gore, in his speech he called for a foreign policy of ''forward engagement'' -- addressing problems early before they become a crisis and doing so ''as close to the source of the problem as possible.'' well, i can think of no problem more in need of such forward engagement than the u.s. embargo of fidel castro's cuba, which has failed for 40 years to oust the cuban dictator and, if continued, is only going to ensure that when castro dies the cuban economy collapses, civil war breaks out and thousands of cubans sail for miami. fixing that policy means engaging the hard-line miami cubans, who want no change in policy, but as mr. gore showed in the elian case, that sort of tough love is not his thing. elian was not a one-day story. it was one of those moments when you get to see everyone's character: attorney general janet reno stood her ground. mr. bush said what his advisers told him to say. and mr. gore tried to both exploit the elian saga for political advantage and hide from it. in his speech, mr. gore decried ''protectionism and isolationism,'' but when union-led demonstrators were disrupting the world trade organization meetings in seattle in the name of more protectionism, mr. gore was silent. what good is it to be for things in principle if you won't take them on in practice? i know mr. gore has cast tough votes before. i know he has to get elected. but the growing trend in the clinton years was that the campaign never ends. this administration has not given a sister souljah speech to anyone in a long, long time. that's why the best you can say today about governor bush on foreign policy is that he doesn't really mean it, and won't do the wrong thing. he'll wise up. and the best you can say about al gore is that he really does mean it and will do the right thing. he'll stand up. but both still have something to prove. 2 democrats fault a gore plan  two democratic senators, daniel patrick moynihan of new york and bob kerrey of nebraska, criticized vice president al gore's approach to social security, saying his plan would make the system dependent on general tax revenue. 2 democrats fault a gore plan  two democratic senators, daniel patrick moynihan of new york and bob kerrey of nebraska, criticized vice president al gore's approach to social security, saying his plan would make the system dependent on general tax revenue. a may 2 letter writer presumes to speak for ''middle-of-the-road gays'' who ''resent being taken for granted by the democratic party'' and want a ''return to decency, honesty and virtue in the white house,'' even if this means voting for george w. bush. my middle-of-the-road gay experience is very different from his. a may 2 letter writer presumes to speak for ''middle-of-the-road gays'' who ''resent being taken for granted by the democratic party'' and want a ''return to decency, honesty and virtue in the white house,'' even if this means voting for george w. bush. my middle-of-the-road gay experience is very different from his. bush vows fight in california -- on the second of what will amount to at least four swings through california this spring, gov. george w. bush insisted yesterday that he was determined to fight for the state's 54 electoral votes and would not repeat the actions of the last two republican presidential nominees, who made an early show of interest in california and then effectively ceded it toward the end of the campaign. ''i intend to campaign all the way through november here,'' mr. bush said in mission viejo, where he visited a charter school. although mr. bush rarely edges up to anything resembling a criticism of his father, former president george bush, who lost his re-election bid in 1992, the texas governor said on wednesday that one reason republicans had hit hard times in california was that the party's presidential nominees in 1992 and 1996 had abandoned any hope of winning the state. bush vows fight in california -- on the second of what will amount to at least four swings through california this spring, gov. george w. bush insisted yesterday that he was determined to fight for the state's 54 electoral votes and would not repeat the actions of the last two republican presidential nominees, who made an early show of interest in california and then effectively ceded it toward the end of the campaign. ''i intend to campaign all the way through november here,'' mr. bush said in mission viejo, where he visited a charter school. although mr. bush rarely edges up to anything resembling a criticism of his father, former president george bush, who lost his re-election bid in 1992, the texas governor said on wednesday that one reason republicans had hit hard times in california was that the party's presidential nominees in 1992 and 1996 had abandoned any hope of winning the state. read my lips: no smirk -- california was not the only place where gov. george w. bush discussed his father's presidential campaigns. in an abc news interview to be broadcast today, he says his father seriously undermined his credibility by breaking the ''read my lips, no new taxes'' pledge that had helped him win the white house in 1988. the texas governor, who himself has taken a no-new-taxes pledge, says the switch helped lead to his father's defeat by bill clinton. as for president clinton, mr. bush sharply criticizes his affair with monica s. lewinsky. ''he and mrs. clinton have done a great job with their daughter, no question about it,'' mr. bush says. ''but bill clinton, unfortunately, in the last chapter of the 20th century, embarrassed our nation.''  mr. bush gave vice president al gore credit for being ''a loving husband and a good dad.'' but he says he is ''a little worried about a man who tends to stretch the truth in order to get ahead politically.''  and what of criticism of himself, especially the charge that he wears a habitual smirk? ''i find a great irony in life and i find humor,'' he replies. ''and i find it amazing that people would spend time analyzing whether i was smiling or not, as opposed to what my views are on education or keeping the economy strong or cutting taxes.'' texas gov george w bush and his advisers, three weeks before closely watched vote in congress on trade relations with china, are making sure to remind capitol hill republicans of his support for bill and have not ruled out his calling undecided republicans (m) three weeks before a closely watched vote in congress on trade relations with china, gov. george w. bush of texas and his advisers are making sure to remind capitol hill republicans of his support for the bill and have not ruled out his calling undecided house republicans. aides said mr. bush was planning to give a speech the week before the house vote, which is expected between may 22 and memorial day, to explain anew why he feels so strongly about facilitating trade between the united states and china. three weeks before a closely watched vote in congress on trade relations with china, gov. george w. bush of texas and his advisers are making sure to remind capitol hill republicans of his support for the bill and have not ruled out his calling undecided house republicans. aides said mr. bush was planning to give a speech the week before the house vote, which is expected between may 22 and memorial day, to explain anew why he feels so strongly about facilitating trade between the united states and china. ''i'll speak out about it,'' mr. bush, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, said aboard his campaign plane wednesday afternoon, referring to the vote. asked if he would phone individual republicans who were undecided, mr. bush first said he doubted it, then added, ''i shouldn't say categorically no.'' several aides to mr. bush said the possibility of such calls had been discussed by republican officials on capitol hill and some of the governor's advisers in austin, tex., but that nothing had been decided. but one aide to mr. bush said the governor was wary of doing anything, on any issue, that resembled outright lobbying, because such actions might appear inappropriate. it could work to mr. bush's advantage to sway them, because it would demonstrate that his calls for more open trade with china have not fallen on deaf ears in his own party. moreover, it would show he can exert leadership over republicans and promote cohesiveness among them. but mr. bush has almost equal reason not to push too hard. should the measure fail, its loss would owe more to democratic opposition than republican and would give mr. bush another issue with which to beat vice president al gore, the presumptive democratic presidential nominee, who also supports it. mr. bush could argue that the clinton administration -- and by extension mr. gore -- could not win enough congressional cooperation to pass any meaningful legislation, political analysts said. indeed, discussing the vote aboard his campaign jet, mr. bush tried to shift the topic from his plans to those of mr. gore. referring to telephoning members of congress, mr. bush said: ''the interesting question is, will vice president gore? because it's his administration that's trying to get the bill through.'' several house republican aides said that mr. bush would probably not be asked to approach individual republicans, because house republicans already knew where the governor stood on the issue and would have factored that into their deliberations. ''not one member has said, 'is governor bush with us? i could use a call' '' one house aide said. ''but if a member says it would be really helpful to get a call from governor bush, we'd ask him, and we're confident he'd say yes.'' several house republican aides said that mr. bush would probably not be asked to approach individual republicans, because house republicans already knew where the governor stood on the issue. for months along the campaign trail, mr. bush has declared his support for permanent normalized trade relations with china. last week, condoleezza rice, mr. bush's chief foreign policy adviser, discussed the issue with house and senate republicans, but she said today that she did not meet specifically with undecided republicans or argue mr. bush's position. two democratic senators, daniel p moynihan and bob kerrey, criticize vice pres al gore's approach to social security, saying his plan would make retirement system dependent on general tax revenue; they join with sen john mccain of arizona to propose a bipartisan congressional commission to plan a comprehensive overhaul of social security system (m) two democratic senators today criticized vice president al gore's approach to social security, saying his plan would make the retirement system dependent on general tax revenue. two democratic senators today criticized vice president al gore's approach to social security, saying his plan would make the retirement system dependent on general tax revenue. mr. kerrey recently met to discuss social security with gov. george w. bush of texas, the expected republican presidential nomineee. right after the three senators spoke, two other democratic senators, byron l. dorgan of north dakota and charles e. schumer of new york, held their own news conference to criticize mr. bush's interest in including individual investment accounts as an element of overhauling social security. mr. gore and mr. bush advocate sharply different approaches to social security. mr. gore has put paying down the $3.5 trillion national debt at the center of his economic agenda. that would reduce the federal government's interest payments. he proposes to keep social security solvent through 2050 by allocating the interest savings to the retirement system. mr. bush is to speak next week on social security and include a call for putting some portion of payroll taxes into private accounts. under this approach, part of the retirement benefit would be guaranteed and part would fluctuate with individual investment decisions. mr. moynihan and mr. kerrey were drawn into spelling out their differences with their party's presumptive presidential nominee by reporters. mr. moynihan branded the word ''privatization'' a ''scare word,'' and he and mr. kerrey said mr. gore's approach would in essence change the very nature of the retirement program. asked about the commission today, mr. gore dismissed the idea, saying: ''these commissions are in the eye of the beholder. i disagree with them, and agree instead with the great majority of democrats and republicans in the senate and the house who are not for privatization of social security.'' mr. bush, campaigning in california, praised the three senators. ''i appreciate so very much the tone of their press conference,'' he said. ''this shouldn't be a partisan issue.'' LUKA-Darda Falasha Conrad Yaacov. On May 2, 2000. Funeral service at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, (Ave L & K) Bklyn, N.Y. 718-377-8610 on Monday, May 8th, 10:30AM. Interment Calverton Cemetery, Calverton, L.I. For further information, please call 917-219-2517 LUKA-Darda Falasha Conrad Yaacov. On May 2, 2000. Funeral service at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, (Ave L & K) Bklyn, N.Y. 718-377-8610 on Monday, May 8th, 10:30AM. Interment Calverton Cemetery, Calverton, L.I. For further information, please call 917-219-2517 * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). RUSSIA: AMBUSH REPORTED -- The Russian military said its special forces ambushed and killed at least 18 Chechen rebels southeast of Grozny. The report could not be confirmed, but if true it could signal a shift in Russian tactics. Russians have relied on armor and air power to press their assault; ambushes have been the rebels' most successful tactic. Legally, describing the terror and gore might have been skipped, because the defense does not dispute that the plane crashed and people died. LUKA-Darda Falasha Conrad Yaacov. On May 2, 2000. Funeral service at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, (Ave L & K) Bklyn, N.Y. 718-377-8610 on Monday, May 8th, 10:30AM. Interment Calverton Cemetery, Calverton, L.I. For further information, please call 917-219-2517 LUKA-Darda Falasha Conrad Yaacov. On May 2, 2000. Funeral service at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, (Ave L & K) Bklyn, N.Y. 718-377-8610 on Monday, May 8th, 10:30AM. Interment Calverton Cemetery, Calverton, L.I. For further information, please call 917-219-2517 * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). RUSSIA: AMBUSH REPORTED -- The Russian military said its special forces ambushed and killed at least 18 Chechen rebels southeast of Grozny. The report could not be confirmed, but if true it could signal a shift in Russian tactics. Russians have relied on armor and air power to press their assault; ambushes have been the rebels' most successful tactic. Legally, describing the terror and gore might have been skipped, because the defense does not dispute that the plane crashed and people died. LUKA-Darda Falasha Conrad Yaacov. On May 2, 2000. Funeral service at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, (Ave L & K) Bklyn, N.Y. 718-377-8610 on Monday, May 8th, 10:30AM. Interment Calverton Cemetery, Calverton, L.I. For further information, please call 917-219-2517 LUKA-Darda Falasha Conrad Yaacov. On May 2, 2000. Funeral service at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, (Ave L & K) Bklyn, N.Y. 718-377-8610 on Monday, May 8th, 10:30AM. Interment Calverton Cemetery, Calverton, L.I. For further information, please call 917-219-2517 * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). RUSSIA: AMBUSH REPORTED -- The Russian military said its special forces ambushed and killed at least 18 Chechen rebels southeast of Grozny. The report could not be confirmed, but if true it could signal a shift in Russian tactics. Russians have relied on armor and air power to press their assault; ambushes have been the rebels' most successful tactic. Legally, describing the terror and gore might have been skipped, because the defense does not dispute that the plane crashed and people died.