 so for much of the three-day convention, anxiety gave way and it was business as usual. publishers asked  al gore and george w. bush about the cross-ownership rule forbidding newspaper owners from owning television stations in the same markets. the chairman of the state liberal party, raymond b. harding, would be freed from a political vise if his close friend skipped the senate race. then he could steer the liberal party behind the democratic team of al gore and mrs. clinton. among advisers not directly affiliated with the campaign, mr. harding has signaled to mr. giuliani that he thinks it might be best for the mayor if he did not run. he has been in a difficult situation from the moment mr. giuliani said he wanted the liberal party's support. mr. harding has seemed inclined to accede to mr. giuliani's request, though it could come with a high cost, since mr. gore has said he might not take the liberal party endorsement if the party backed mr. giuliani. the task of general mccaffrey's division was to take the fight to iraq's republican guard. unlike some of his fellow army commanders, who methodically and cautiously meaneuvered their units on the battle-field, general mccaffrey had his soldiers race through southern iraq, and they were on the verge of cutting off many of the iraqi forces when president bush announced that a cease-fire would take place after 100 hours of ground combat. gore camp seeks focus  vice president al gore's campaign is struggling to reorient itself toward the general election and many of mr. gore's closest advisers concede that gov. george w. bush of texas has outmaneuvered them in appealing to moderate voters. some women in chicago who said they normally voted democratic expressed dissatisfaction with mr. gore, echoing reactions that have been suggested on a larger scale in recent national polls. gore jokes aren't gore's  the jewish jokes that vice president al gore used last week turn out to have come from a web site, which was not credited as the source. authors of jewish jokes that vice pres al gore used at speech before anti-defamation league of b'nai b'rith express irritation that gore used copyrighted material without permission or attribution (s) anything for a laugh. so say the real authors of the jewish jokes that vice president al gore used last week, without attribution. mr. gore got some big laughs during a speech to the anti-defamation league in washington last week by reciting some titles of imaginary jewish country-and-western tunes. (example: ''the second time she said 'shalom,' i knew she meant goodbye.'') anything for a laugh. so say the real authors of the jewish jokes that vice president al gore used last week, without attribution. mr. gore got some big laughs during a speech to the anti-defamation league in washington last week by reciting some titles of imaginary jewish country-and-western tunes. (example: ''the second time she said 'shalom,' i knew she meant goodbye.'') he never mentioned the source of the jokes, but after mr. gore's routine was reprinted and rebroadcast by several news outlets, a wave of voices washed up on the internet to give credit to the authors, who turned out not to be from mr. gore's speech-writing shop, as one might have supposed, but ordinary folk who contributed to an online humor site (www.topfive.com). nobody is terribly angry, just a little confounded about what to do. ''the last thing i want to do is start up trouble, because i'm a gore supporter,'' chris white, 42, who is the editor of the web site and lives in manhattan, said in an interview. he said he had not called mr. gore's staff to complain. ''it would be nice to get some recognition, but i'm not sure how far i want to pursue it,'' mr. white said. ''if we get to be too much of a pest, he'll stop using the material.'' the vice president's office more or less shrugged off the fact that mr. gore had not attributed the jokes. ''like all of us, the vice president, when he hears a funny joke, tells it to others and passes it on,'' said melissa ratcliff, a spokeswoman for his office. mr. white said the jewish jokes had been culled from his contributors around the country and posted on his web site on feb. 24, 1999. mr. gore has apparently used them a couple of times since, but they are by no means part of his regular campaign speeches. one of the titles mentioned by mr. gore was dreamed up by john treusch, 34, a computer systems administrator in burlington, n.j. he described himself in an interview as a frustrated english major who was happy to have found an outlet for his verbal skills. he said that he had no real complaint about the vice president using his material, but ''i'd rather have dennis miller use my stuff than al gore.'' democrats clearly hoped that the rallies would mark a sea change in the politics of gun control and an end to the truism that the gun lobby can turn out its vote, while the forces of gun control cannot. celinda lake, a democratic pollster who attended today's march in washington, said, in a reference to gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee: ''bush ought to be terrified. look out there -- that is the face of the soccer mom.'' but polls have shown that women are almost evenly divided in their views of how the two presidential candidates handle the gun issue. the latest new york times/cbs news poll asked, ''regardless of which candidate you prefer for president, who do you agree with more on the issue of gun control -- al gore or george w. bush?'' thirty-five percent of the women said they agreed more with mr. gore, while 30 percent said they agreed more with mr. bush. among mothers, 33 percent said they agree more with mr. bush, 24 percent with mr. gore. the task of general mccaffrey's  division was to take the fight to  iraq's republican guard. unlike  some of his fellow army command ers, who methodically and cautiously  maneuvered their units on the battle field, general mccaffrey had his sol diers race through southern iraq,  and they were on the verge of cutting  off many of the iraqi forces when  president bush announced that a  cease-fire would take place after 100  hours of ground combat. in that regard, many of us -- even some scandalmongers -- draw a line between private life and public conduct. i'm for full disclosure of financial dealings past and present, but what candidates do in their bedrooms is none of our business, and i really don't care if al gore or george w. bush smoked pot or worse in their youth. both giuliani and his former flack deny his wife's charge of an affair; in the absence of evidence, we should presume innocence. but mr. king, 56, who is serving his fourth term in the house, acknowledged that he might have trouble winning the support of state republican leaders as a result of his decision earlier this year to back the presidential bid of senator john mccain of arizona. party leaders had backed gov. george w. bush of texas. national polls suggest women prefer republican presidential candidate gov george w bush over democratic rival vice pres al gore; find bush is preferred particularly by married women and mothers; while many women say they agree with gore's platform, others say they know little about his views; some say they have negative gut feeling about him and that he lacks charisma; results have caused enough concern among gore supporters to prompt groups like national organization for women to meet with him to urge him to work harder to reach women; photos (m) but this year, things seem different to the 35-year-old special education teacher from evergreen park, a suburb south of chicago. she is disillusioned with vice president al gore and says she is likely to vote for gov. george w. bush of texas. but this year, things seem different to the 35-year-old special education teacher from evergreen park, a suburb south of chicago. she is disillusioned with vice president al gore and says she is likely to vote for gov. george w. bush of texas. ''i don't like the way he carries himself,'' ms. hannan-welch said of mr. gore. ''i see him putting his foot in his mouth a lot. my biggest beef is, is someone going to go in there and get things done? with gore, you don't really know what he believes. it's sort of like, is someone there behind him telling him what to do?'' ms. hannan-welch's negative impression of mr. gore was echoed to some degree in recent interviews in chicago with women who said they normally vote democratic. while most said they also disliked governor bush, they were unenthusiastic about the democratic alternative. similar reactions have been suggested in recent national polls. they have found that mr. bush is preferred by women, particularly married women and mothers. the results have caused enough concern among gore supporters that last week representatives of groups like the national organization for women met with mr. gore to urge him to work harder to reach women. in general, the chicago women interviewed who were sour on mr. gore were not reacting to specific issues. several agreed with his platform, while others said they knew little about his views. instead, several women said they had a negative gut feeling about him, that he lacked charisma or seemed untrustworthy. by contrast, those women interviewed who supported mr. gore generally attributed their approval to his views on issues like abortion, the environment and education, saying that once others understood his positions they would support him, too. ''am i concerned about it? absolutely,'' said peter giangreco, a gore campaign adviser in illinois. but, ''if i wasn't concerned about women i'd be freaking out about some other group because that's what we do. all we do is obsess about groups like rural white men over 50 and women with cell phones under 30.'' he and other gore supporters said it was still early in the campaign and most voters were not paying attention. mr. giangreco said most still knew little about mr. gore, and that he was at his best speaking directly to voters and in debates ''mano a mano.'' gore strategists have been concerned for at least a year about polls showing that women preferred mr. bush, and mr. gore's campaign appearances have emphasized his longstanding women-friendly agenda. by and large, the women who were interviewed said their views of president clinton had no bearing on how they saw mr. gore. a few said they wished mr. clinton were running again. and those disillusioned by the monica lewinsky scandal said they did not view mr. gore in that context. but mr. gore's position as vice president struck some as a liability. several women said they thought mr. gore lacked backbone. jackie pomarski, 34, a homemaker from a democratic working-class southwest chicago neighborhood, said mr. gore ''will say whatever he needs to say to please the crowd. he's kind of a snake in the grass. when he talks i feel like he always has a big smirk on his face.'' some said they felt that mr. gore did not have the intellectual muscle or skills to be president, despite his harvard degree and cerebral reputation, plus the eight years he has had to soak up the details and abilities a president needs. ''i don't think that gore has the right stuff for the presidency,'' said irene cohen, a clinton supporter in her 60's. ''i don't think he has the ability, i don't think he's smart enough, i don't think he presents himself to the public well enough.'' some women's reactions suggested that either mr. gore had not communicated his opinions well enough or they did not matter. ''bush just exudes tremendous self-confidence,'' said ms. hannan-welch, an abortion rights supporter. she said some of her relatives would ''roll over in their graves'' if they heard her now. ''he kind of reminds me of a kennedy. if you look at the kennedys, they had these issues, they stood up for them. i may not agree with everything he says, but he has a plan and he moves forward.'' mrs. rabichow, a bill bradley supporter, said she did not know mr. gore's views on her critical issues, medicare and prescription drugs. ''i don't know what issues he has,'' she said. ''clinton was certainly much more outspoken. clinton's a much brighter guy than gore.'' some women did mention issues, criticizing, for example, mr. gore's break with the clinton administration when he said elian gonzalez and his father should be given permanent residency status. mrs. pomarski, who opposes abortion, said that mr. gore flip-flopped on the issue. he opposed federal financing of abortion early in his congressional career, but has supported abortion rights for many years. she said she liked his positions on northern ireland and on education. mr. gore's supporters said they were confident that he would excite voters once they saw him and mr. bush in conventions and debates. christie hefner, the chairwoman and chief executive of playboy enterprises, who is active in democratic politics, said it was reassuring that women disenchanted with mr. gore freely acknowledged they did not know his opinions on issues. nearly all the women interviewed were equally critical of mr. bush and said they could not see voting for him. mrs. pomarski, for example, called the texas governor ''sinister.'' and mrs. cohen said, ''i don't think either one of them is really capable. if i had to go to the polls right now, i'd vote for mickey mouse.'' presidential campaign of vice pres al gore is struggling to reorient itself, two months after triumphantly claiming enough delegates for democratic presidential nomination; many closest advisers concede republican rival gov george w bush has outmaneuvered him in appealing to moderate voters; acknowledge unease on several fronts; many feel that campaign has drifted and lost focus; express concern that bush's move to placate moderates after sharp turn to right in primaries was more swift and successful than they expected; voice respect for bush's stewardship of campaign organization and regret that gore campaign allowed itself for weeks to become enveloped in case of cuban refugee elian gonzalez; accept some responsibility for gore's troubles, admitting to failure to dispense appropriate advice and not adequately fine-tune message, but say vice president is suffering because bush has move more aggressively to lay out agenda; campaign chairman tony coelho comments (m) two months after al gore triumphantly claimed enough delegates for the democratic presidential nomination, his campaign is struggling to reorient itself toward the general election, and many of the vice president's closest advisers concede that gov. george w. bush of texas has outmaneuvered them in appealing to moderate voters. several senior gore advisers interviewed at the campaign headquarters here and elsewhere in the country acknowledged that there was unease on several fronts. they said the campaign had drifted and lost focus since the primaries. they expressed concern that mr. bush's move to placate moderates after his sharp turn to the right in the primaries was more swift and successful than they expected. two months after al gore triumphantly claimed enough delegates for the democratic presidential nomination, his campaign is struggling to reorient itself toward the general election, and many of the vice president's closest advisers concede that gov. george w. bush of texas has outmaneuvered them in appealing to moderate voters. several senior gore advisers interviewed at the campaign headquarters here and elsewhere in the country acknowledged that there was unease on several fronts. they said the campaign had drifted and lost focus since the primaries. they expressed concern that mr. bush's move to placate moderates after his sharp turn to the right in the primaries was more swift and successful than they expected. some gore strategists expressed respect, albeit grudging, for mr. bush's stewardship of his organization, one that has been run entirely out of austin, tex., by a staff largely untested in national campaigns. and the strategists said they regretted that the gore campaign for weeks allowed itself to become enveloped in the case of elian gonzalez. campaign officials accepted some responsibility for mr. gore's troubles, saying that at times they had failed to dispense appropriate advice and did not adequately fine-tune his message. but mostly, they said, the vice president is suffering because mr. bush has moved more aggressively to lay out his agenda, and the public has not had a chance to compare his positions with mr. gore's. tony coelho, the gore campaign chairman, said in an interview here that while mr. gore had distanced himself months earlier from the clinton administration on the gonzalez matter, the campaign should have more effectively conveyed that when mr. gore spoke out in march, saying the cuban boy should be granted permanent residency status. still, even the most negative gore advisers insisted that they were not alarmed, and that with election day nearly six months away, there was time for the campaign to right itself. but their biggest fear, they said, was that if mr. gore does not move quickly to refine his message, impressions may be locked in place. the campaign's difficulties have been magnified by several recent opinion polls that show mr. gore trailing mr. bush in virtually every demographic category. many surveys have found that mr. bush is leading mr. gore among almost every age and income group nationally except for elderly voters; mr. bush has had more success drawing independents and, strikingly, he is even outperforming mr. gore among married women, traditionally a more democratic constituency. in several important states that are usually reliably democratic -- like iowa, minnesota, oregon, washington and wisconsin -- surveys show that the vice president faces unusually tight competition. privately, some gore advisers said they worried that republicans had rallied around mr. bush far more eagerly than democrats around mr. gore because they were so determined to retake the white house. but publicly, many gore aides insisted it was too early to fret. ''you know what i keep telling my friends who are panicking over polls?'' asked donna brazile, the gore campaign manager. ''that it's a summertime passion in washington, d.c.'' seeking to reassure democrats, she added: ''the republican party cannot win from the right so they are trying to dance and shuffle to the middle. well, the middle is ours. it's occupied.'' carter eskew, a top gore strategist, said of mr. bush: ''the race has settled somewhat in his favor, but it is still a very close race. in terms of what bush is doing, there's some good camouflage going on. it reflects a wearing off of some of the damage done to bush in the primaries. but eventually voters will see through it.'' acknowledging the faltering poll numbers, mr. coelho said: ''i am cognizant of the fact that with women we need to be better by the time november comes. the thing is that most of these women don't understand where george bush is on a lot of these issues. the pollsters say the public is a lot more interested in vacations right now.'' but, he added, ''we have a challenge between here and november.'' one top gore aide was not as upbeat. ''we went into a lull after the primaries and the bush campaign went right on script,'' the aide said. ''gore obviously has to step up his game and differentiate himself. we have to sharpen our focus. we have not focused on the winning formula.'' the belief that mr. gore needs to jump-start his operation has sparked internal debate over whether his strategy of ridiculing mr. bush's proposals, while successful in the primaries against former senator bill bradley, threaten to make the vice president appear too harsh. mr. coelho, for his part, insisted that mr. gore would not shrink from his aggressive tone. ''the public wants somebody who will fight,'' he said. as part of the drive to sharpen mr. gore's presentation and to consolidate a campaign with separate (and at times overlapping) orbits here, at the white house and on the plane with mr. gore, the campaign's top advisers and consultants met here friday for the first of what will be a series of weekly meetings. participants said they hashed over approaches to refine mr. gore's message, as well as tactical considerations, like which states to compete in most heavily. mr. coelho said, repeatedly, that the press should not dwell on the vice president's recent dips in the polls, but on how he is still in far better shape than six months ago, when mr. bush was clobbering him by wide margins. arguing that mr. gore was suffering in part because of expectations, he said: ''we came out of our primary higher than we should have. he came out of his primary lower than he should have.'' members of the gore high command were quick to note that bill clinton was way down in the polls at this point in 1992 -- and won the election. and at this point in 1988, michael s. dukakis basked in a comfortable lead, only to lose. already, the 2000 campaign has been remarkable for the many reversals of fortune. a year ago, mr. gore did not even view mr. bradley as a threat. by the fall, mr. bradley's success forced mr. gore to retool his campaign. and by the end of the primaries, mr. gore appeared to be more potent than mr. bush, who was severely wounded after a contentious scrimmage with senator john mccain in which he made stark appeals to the right that many democrats said would haunt him. karl rove, mr. bush's chief strategist, said his campaign was moving forward with a general election strategy that had long been in place but was interrupted by the primaries. he said the gore campaign's drive to undermine mr. bush's experience would fail because voters ''recognize that bush has crossed the threshold of experience.'' ''we've had seven good weeks,'' mr. rove said. ''with the lights turned back on and the arena flooded with sunlight, bush has essentially returned to where he was in december and gore has returned to where he was.'' geoffrey garin, a democratic pollster, said: ''bush's charm offensive has been quite effective and the challenge for gore is to get the race re-engaged as quickly as he can. we're in the best period for bush. he's not forced to operate under pressure or in the heat of the battle. in those circumstances he delivers a plausible and often appealing performance. gore is at his best in the heat of battle.''