 roth-rebecca. young israel of flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, rebecca roth. kenneth auman, rabbi mark goldstein, pres. roth-rebecca. young israel of flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, rebecca roth. kenneth auman, rabbi mark goldstein, pres. mccain responds to supporters about bush -- supporters of senator john mccain of arizona are inundating him with hundreds of e-mail messages and telephone calls complaining about his endorsement of gov. george w. bush of texas. he has responded with an e-mail message of his own, sent to 120,000 supporters on his campaign list, that recalled that he had promised at the start of his campaign to support the eventual republican nominee and that he always makes good on his promises. in any event, the message continued, mr. bush is now ''our best hope'' to oust the democrats from the white house. ''to those who i have disappointed,'' mr. mccain wrote, ''let me simply reiterate that i will never give up my fight for real government reform.'' he and the texas governor, he said, still have ''a few principled disagreements,'' but he did not elaborate. mccain aides said the senator expected complaints about his endorsement but went ahead because breaking a promise would not only have tarnished his straight-talking image but also have made him appear a poor loser and a less-than-faithful republican, should he ever seek the presidency again. mccain responds to supporters about bush -- supporters of senator john mccain of arizona are inundating him with hundreds of e-mail messages and telephone calls complaining about his endorsement of gov. george w. bush of texas. he has responded with an e-mail message of his own, sent to 120,000 supporters on his campaign list, that recalled that he had promised at the start of his campaign to support the eventual republican nominee and that he always makes good on his promises. in any event, the message continued, mr. bush is now ''our best hope'' to oust the democrats from the white house. ''to those who i have disappointed,'' mr. mccain wrote, ''let me simply reiterate that i will never give up my fight for real government reform.'' he and the texas governor, he said, still have ''a few principled disagreements,'' but he did not elaborate. mccain aides said the senator expected complaints about his endorsement but went ahead because breaking a promise would not only have tarnished his straight-talking image but also have made him appear a poor loser and a less-than-faithful republican, should he ever seek the presidency again. bush comments on 2 possible running mates -- when gov. george w. bush of texas was asked about vice-presidential candidates in an interview with the lifetime women's cable channel yesterday, he had notably different reactions to two names, suggesting that he was concerned about appearing too open to the idea of a running mate who strongly supports abortion rights. asked if elizabeth dole, an opponent of abortion, was on his list, he said that she was and then praised her as ''a good friend of mine who has had a great career.'' but when asked about gov. christine todd whitman of new jersey, who supports abortion rights and whose selection would undoubtedly provoke many religious conservatives, mr. bush's response seemed conspicuously restrained. ''there's a lot of people on the list,'' he said. another survey shows a strong bush lead -- for the second time this week, a national presidential preference poll has gov. george w. bush leading vice president al gore by at least half a dozen percentage points. the newest survey, released yesterday by the voter.com group, puts mr. bush ahead by 48 percent to 42 percent. a poll released on wednesday by the los angeles times had mr. bush ahead by eight percentage points. like the times poll, the voter.com poll found mr. bush now pulling about as much of the female vote as mr. gore, though that voting segment has traditionally leaned heavily to democrats. mr. bush continues to lead among men, and he has moved ahead in the struggle for independents, a toss-up earlier. the voter.com poll also found mr. bush leading among democrats who had supported ronald reagan and also found that half of all voters had grown pessimistic about the state of the nation and its direction, despite the strong economy. asked to rank top issues for congress, voters most often mentioned ''restoring moral values,'' followed by education. they said republicans would be best at restoring moral values -- 6 in 10 disapproved of president clinton ''as a person'' -- but believed democrats would do more for education. the poll surveyed 1,000 likely voters from may 1 to may 3 and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. gore makes most of washington connections -- many are the perks of being vice president, particularly when you are running for president. al gore demonstrated that anew this week, first by handing out what his office called ''deliverables'' -- more than $25 million in grants to expand tourism and businesses in the financially struggling mississippi delta -- and then by announcing ''improvements'' in veterans' education benefits worth $1.2 billion over five years. (never mind that the money will come from savings in other veterans' programs.) mr. gore boasted that the improvements were ''the single largest increase in veterans' education benefits'' in more than 15 years. gov. george w. bush called mr. gore hypocritical because the clinton administration had earlier proposed sharp cuts in veterans' benefits. russian convoy is ambushed  islamic rebels mounted a major attack outside chechnya's borders for the first time in nearly nine months, killing 18 of 22 russian soldiers in a convoy as it moved down a mountain road in the caucasus foothills in midmorning. three soldiers were wounded and one was missing. union warns gore on china  george becker, president of the united steelworkers of america, said organized labor's support for vice president al gore could be hurt by his recent lobbying for the china trade legislation. in fact, vice president al gore has withdrawn his support for the proposal. the president has shelved it, citing a lack of support in congress. but mr. clinton's spokesman said earlier this month that the president still supported the concept. the panel, whose third member is judge joel f. dubina, who was appointed by president george bush and is considered a moderate, has several options, legal experts and lawyers for both sides say. it could rule that immigration officials were correct in denying the boy an asylum hearing based on his age, even though immigration laws guarantee an asylum hearing for ''any alien.'' george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- burbank, calif., and portland, ore. george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- burbank, calif., and portland, ore. op-ed article by andrew kohut, director of pew research center for people and the press, says most polls find about equal levels of confidence in two presidential candidates on gun control, even though issue seems tailor-made for vice pres al gore as he runs against gov george w bush, who is seen as 'friendly' to unpopular national rifle assn; says recent polls find some backlash against calls for controls, and many agree with nra position that better enforcement of existing laws is more important than new laws; says question is whether bush can hold middle while hanging onto second amendment advocates, and whether gore can draw in more female supporters who favor controls without further alienating men who have less commitment to this cause gun control looked like a tailor-made issue that al gore and the democrats could hit out of the park. in post-columbine america, george w. bush seemed very vulnerable, having signed a conceal-and-carry law in texas, and having been identified by the unpopular national rifle association as being a potentially ''friendly'' president. yet, that's not what the polls are showing. most surveys have found about equal levels of confidence in the two candidates on gun control. and a recent gallup poll even found a 43 percent to 37 percent plurality thinking mr. bush would do the better job on this issue. two factors account for this unexpected result. politically, voters who take a strong pro-control position overwhelmingly favor mr. gore on this issue, while those who hold the opposite point of view think mr. bush best represents them. but voters with a mixed or moderate position tend to have more confidence in mr. bush than in mr. gore, according to pew research center surveys. the judgments of the ''moderates'' at this point probably have less to do with knowledge of what the candidates believe about specific controls and rest more on hunches about them personally. a second component of this is gender, one of the most important prisms in this campaign, especially when it comes to guns. men have more confidence in mr. bush and women more faith in mr. gore to represent their views. how, and if, the issue affects voter decisions will hinge on the outcome of the campaigns for and against gun control. can the likes of a million moms do what the n.r.a. has done for years -- mold single-issue voters?  can mr. bush hold the middle on this issue while hanging onto the second amendment advocates? can mr. gore effectively draw in more female supporters who favor controls without further alienating men who have less commitment to this cause? * ''american psycho,'' starring christian bale. directed by mary harron (r, 104 minutes). ms. harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of bret easton ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. the movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by mr. bale as patrick bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's wall street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. reese witherspoon, chloe sevigny, samantha mathis and cara seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. the movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (stephen holden). * ''american psycho,'' starring christian bale. directed by mary harron (r, 104 minutes). ms. harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of bret easton ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. the movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by mr. bale as patrick bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's wall street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. reese witherspoon, chloe sevigny, samantha mathis and cara seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. the movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (stephen holden). ''caribbean food and culture of flatbush,'' brooklyn. a historical and gastronomic tour led by alice baldwin-jones, an anthropologist. meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the corner of flatbush and ocean avenues. sponsored by the brooklyn center for the urban environment. fee, $8; $6 for center members; $5 for students and the elderly. information: (718) 788-8500, extension 401. islamic rebels mount major attack outside chechnya's borders for first time in nearly 9 months, nearly wiping out convoy of 22 russian soldiers moving down mountain road in neighboring region of russia, ingushetia; ambush kills 18 russian troops and wounds 3 others; russian planes later bomb forests near ambush site; map (m) the mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the caucasus foothills killed 18 russian interior ministry troops and wounded 3 others. one soldier was reported missing. the mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the caucasus foothills killed 18 russian interior ministry troops and wounded 3 others. one soldier was reported missing. ''they were attacked treacherously with grenade launchers by bandits who hid in the roadside bush,''the first deputy chief of the russian general staff, col. gen. valery manilov, said. ''we hope that we will track them down and punish them for their crime.'' russian planes later bombed forests near the ambush site, north of the village of galashki and just a few miles from the major government-run camps for chechen war refugees. it was not known whether the attackers were hit. the ambush was a departure for the battered rebels, who had not attacked russian troops outside chechnya's borders since the early stages of the chechnya war last september. the war began last summer after rebels invaded the neighboring province of dagestan, touching off a struggle with russian troops along the two provinces' border. and in fact, it is not clear that the rebels, backed into southern chechnya's mountains by the russians, can widen the conflict beyond periodic ambushes like the one today. the russian military says many guerrillas have melted into the civilian populations of chechnya and ingushetia. on the other hand, ambushes like today's make it clear that russian forces have not restored order to the area, as spokesmen are now claiming. the rebels have staged damaging attacks on russian convoys on the average of every two weeks since general fighting ended in march, killing as many as 32 soldiers in a single ambush. possession. in andrzej zulawski's striking but perplexing horror film, a tormented woman (isabelle adjani) has been cheating on her husband (sam neill) with a human lover and another partner who starts out with a set of tentacles. ''it's a movie that contains a certain amount of unseemly gore and makes no sense whatsoever,'' vincent canby wrote in the new york times. that may have been because he was watching a theatrical version stripped down to around 80 minutes. here, 45 minutes have been restored, making matters complete, if not that much clearer. 1981. anchor bay. $14.98; dvd, $29.98. 123 minutes. president of united steelworkers of america, one of nation's most powerful trade unions, says organized labor's support for vice pres al gore could be hurt by his recent lobbying for china trade deal; president, george becker, played pivotal role in getting afl-cio to endorse gore; says he is angry that gore is lobbying hard for china deal after telling labor leaders that his views on trade would differ from pres clinton's; becker declines to say what action, if any, his union might take (m) the president of the united steelworkers of america, one of the nation's most powerful trade unions, said today that organized labor's support for vice president al gore could be hurt by his recent lobbying for the china trade deal. george becker, the steelworkers' president, who played a pivotal role in getting the a.f.l.-c.i.o. to endorse the vice president, said he was angry that mr. gore was lobbying hard for the china deal after telling labor leaders that his views on trade would differ from president clinton's. the president of the united steelworkers of america, one of the nation's most powerful trade unions, said today that organized labor's support for vice president al gore could be hurt by his recent lobbying for the china trade deal. george becker, the steelworkers' president, who played a pivotal role in getting the a.f.l.-c.i.o. to endorse the vice president, said he was angry that mr. gore was lobbying hard for the china deal after telling labor leaders that his views on trade would differ from president clinton's. mr. becker declined to say what action, if any, his union might take because of its unhappiness with mr. gore's trade stance, but he said the vice president's position might alienate many supporters in his union. most labor leaders have not publicly criticized mr. gore's support of the deal, which calls for permanently normalizing trade relations with china. many labor leaders say that while they disagree with the vice president, they agree with him on most other issues and do not want to undercut his chances in november. douglas hattaway, a spokesman for the gore campaign, said the vice president is sympathetic to the steelworkers' concerns and plans to continue working with the labor movement on a range of issues that affect working families. ''at the same time, he's been very clear about his position on this issue from the day he was endorsed by the a.f.l.-c.i.o. last october,'' mr. hattaway said. ''he believes the agreement is good for workers and good for the economy.'' mr. becker said he believed that the china bill would have a far more difficult chance of gaining house approval if mr. gore were not lobbying for it. ''this is a pretty close vote, and if he makes the difference in this, and we lose, i think there'll be a hell of a price to pay,'' mr. becker said. at the a.f.l.-c.i.o. convention last october, he said, many labor leaders felt more confident about endorsing mr. gore after he promised, if elected, to place more emphasis on worker rights in negotiating trade agreements than president clinton has. mr. becker voiced a concern that many labor leaders have been murmuring for weeks. many say they are finding it hard to excite union members to vote for and campaign for mr. gore when he is battling them on labor's no. 1 legislative issue. one house democrat whom mr. gore has lobbied, bob clement of tennessee, announced today that he would vote against the china bill. another democrat, juanita millender-mcdonald of california, also announced her opposition. but representative ken bentsen, a texas democrat, announced his support for the bill, saying he was encouraged by a white house plan to set up a commission that would study the problems of displaced workers. some opponents assert that mr. gore is lobbying so hard to show that he is willing to take a stand unpopular with many supporters. in an interview with diane rehm, a washington-based talk-show host, mr. clinton said yesterday that mr. gore's stance on china would help the vice president politically. mr. lott and mr. hastert, who met privately today on a number of issues, are forming the panel with the knowledge and implicit blessing of top aides to gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee. indeed, the panel is likely to be stocked in part with experts who are advising mr. bush. photo of vice pres al gore with students at school in cudahy, calif, part of his school days effort to find out what makes best schools work ROTH-Rebecca. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Rebecca Roth. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. ROTH-Rebecca. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Rebecca Roth. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. Russian Convoy Is Ambushed  Islamic rebels mounted a major attack outside Chechnya's borders for the first time in nearly nine months, killing 18 of 22 Russian soldiers in a convoy as it moved down a mountain road in the Caucasus foothills in midmorning. Three soldiers were wounded and one was missing. * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). ''CARIBBEAN FOOD AND CULTURE OF FLATBUSH,'' Brooklyn. A historical and gastronomic tour led by Alice Baldwin-Jones, an anthropologist. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the corner of Flatbush and Ocean Avenues. Sponsored by the Brooklyn Center for the Urban Environment. Fee, $8; $6 for Center members; $5 for students and the elderly. Information: (718) 788-8500, extension 401. Islamic rebels mount major attack outside Chechnya's borders for first time in nearly 9 months, nearly wiping out convoy of 22 Russian soldiers moving down mountain road in neighboring region of Russia, Ingushetia; ambush kills 18 Russian troops and wounds 3 others; Russian planes later bomb forests near ambush site; map (M) The mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the Caucasus foothills killed 18 Russian Interior Ministry troops and wounded 3 others. One soldier was reported missing. The mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the Caucasus foothills killed 18 Russian Interior Ministry troops and wounded 3 others. One soldier was reported missing. ''They were attacked treacherously with grenade launchers by bandits who hid in the roadside bush,''the first deputy chief of the Russian general staff, Col. Gen. Valery Manilov, said. ''We hope that we will track them down and punish them for their crime.'' Russian planes later bombed forests near the ambush site, north of the village of Galashki and just a few miles from the major government-run camps for Chechen war refugees. It was not known whether the attackers were hit. The ambush was a departure for the battered rebels, who had not attacked Russian troops outside Chechnya's borders since the early stages of the Chechnya war last September. The war began last summer after rebels invaded the neighboring province of Dagestan, touching off a struggle with Russian troops along the two provinces' border. And in fact, it is not clear that the rebels, backed into southern Chechnya's mountains by the Russians, can widen the conflict beyond periodic ambushes like the one today. The Russian military says many guerrillas have melted into the civilian populations of Chechnya and Ingushetia. On the other hand, ambushes like today's make it clear that Russian forces have not restored order to the area, as spokesmen are now claiming. The rebels have staged damaging attacks on Russian convoys on the average of every two weeks since general fighting ended in March, killing as many as 32 soldiers in a single ambush. POSSESSION. In Andrzej Zulawski's striking but perplexing horror film, a tormented woman (Isabelle Adjani) has been cheating on her husband (Sam Neill) with a human lover and another partner who starts out with a set of tentacles. ''It's a movie that contains a certain amount of unseemly gore and makes no sense whatsoever,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times. That may have been because he was watching a theatrical version stripped down to around 80 minutes. Here, 45 minutes have been restored, making matters complete, if not that much clearer. 1981. Anchor Bay. $14.98; DVD, $29.98. 123 minutes. ROTH-Rebecca. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Rebecca Roth. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. ROTH-Rebecca. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Rebecca Roth. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. Russian Convoy Is Ambushed  Islamic rebels mounted a major attack outside Chechnya's borders for the first time in nearly nine months, killing 18 of 22 Russian soldiers in a convoy as it moved down a mountain road in the Caucasus foothills in midmorning. Three soldiers were wounded and one was missing. * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). ''CARIBBEAN FOOD AND CULTURE OF FLATBUSH,'' Brooklyn. A historical and gastronomic tour led by Alice Baldwin-Jones, an anthropologist. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the corner of Flatbush and Ocean Avenues. Sponsored by the Brooklyn Center for the Urban Environment. Fee, $8; $6 for Center members; $5 for students and the elderly. Information: (718) 788-8500, extension 401. Islamic rebels mount major attack outside Chechnya's borders for first time in nearly 9 months, nearly wiping out convoy of 22 Russian soldiers moving down mountain road in neighboring region of Russia, Ingushetia; ambush kills 18 Russian troops and wounds 3 others; Russian planes later bomb forests near ambush site; map (M) The mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the Caucasus foothills killed 18 Russian Interior Ministry troops and wounded 3 others. One soldier was reported missing. The mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the Caucasus foothills killed 18 Russian Interior Ministry troops and wounded 3 others. One soldier was reported missing. ''They were attacked treacherously with grenade launchers by bandits who hid in the roadside bush,''the first deputy chief of the Russian general staff, Col. Gen. Valery Manilov, said. ''We hope that we will track them down and punish them for their crime.'' Russian planes later bombed forests near the ambush site, north of the village of Galashki and just a few miles from the major government-run camps for Chechen war refugees. It was not known whether the attackers were hit. The ambush was a departure for the battered rebels, who had not attacked Russian troops outside Chechnya's borders since the early stages of the Chechnya war last September. The war began last summer after rebels invaded the neighboring province of Dagestan, touching off a struggle with Russian troops along the two provinces' border. And in fact, it is not clear that the rebels, backed into southern Chechnya's mountains by the Russians, can widen the conflict beyond periodic ambushes like the one today. The Russian military says many guerrillas have melted into the civilian populations of Chechnya and Ingushetia. On the other hand, ambushes like today's make it clear that Russian forces have not restored order to the area, as spokesmen are now claiming. The rebels have staged damaging attacks on Russian convoys on the average of every two weeks since general fighting ended in March, killing as many as 32 soldiers in a single ambush. POSSESSION. In Andrzej Zulawski's striking but perplexing horror film, a tormented woman (Isabelle Adjani) has been cheating on her husband (Sam Neill) with a human lover and another partner who starts out with a set of tentacles. ''It's a movie that contains a certain amount of unseemly gore and makes no sense whatsoever,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times. That may have been because he was watching a theatrical version stripped down to around 80 minutes. Here, 45 minutes have been restored, making matters complete, if not that much clearer. 1981. Anchor Bay. $14.98; DVD, $29.98. 123 minutes. ROTH-Rebecca. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Rebecca Roth. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. ROTH-Rebecca. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter, Rebecca Roth. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi Mark Goldstein, Pres. Russian Convoy Is Ambushed  Islamic rebels mounted a major attack outside Chechnya's borders for the first time in nearly nine months, killing 18 of 22 Russian soldiers in a convoy as it moved down a mountain road in the Caucasus foothills in midmorning. Three soldiers were wounded and one was missing. * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). * ''AMERICAN PSYCHO,'' starring Christian Bale. Directed by Mary Harron (R, 104 minutes). Ms. Harron's sleekly brilliant screen adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis's notorious 1991 novel pares away most of the book's gore to portray the main character's homicidal butchery as a high-gloss fantasy. The movie's chic blend of satire, comedy and horror is anchored in a star-making performance by Mr. Bale as Patrick Bateman, a fashion-obsessed late-80's Wall Street hotshot who goes on a killing spree. Reese Witherspoon, Chloe Sevigny, Samantha Mathis and Cara Seymour give dazzling cameo performances as the unfortunate women in his life. The movie's message about a soulless, surface-obsessed society still applies (Stephen Holden). ''CARIBBEAN FOOD AND CULTURE OF FLATBUSH,'' Brooklyn. A historical and gastronomic tour led by Alice Baldwin-Jones, an anthropologist. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the corner of Flatbush and Ocean Avenues. Sponsored by the Brooklyn Center for the Urban Environment. Fee, $8; $6 for Center members; $5 for students and the elderly. Information: (718) 788-8500, extension 401. Islamic rebels mount major attack outside Chechnya's borders for first time in nearly 9 months, nearly wiping out convoy of 22 Russian soldiers moving down mountain road in neighboring region of Russia, Ingushetia; ambush kills 18 Russian troops and wounds 3 others; Russian planes later bomb forests near ambush site; map (M) The mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the Caucasus foothills killed 18 Russian Interior Ministry troops and wounded 3 others. One soldier was reported missing. The mid-morning ambush of two troop trucks and an armored vehicle in the Caucasus foothills killed 18 Russian Interior Ministry troops and wounded 3 others. One soldier was reported missing. ''They were attacked treacherously with grenade launchers by bandits who hid in the roadside bush,''the first deputy chief of the Russian general staff, Col. Gen. Valery Manilov, said. ''We hope that we will track them down and punish them for their crime.'' Russian planes later bombed forests near the ambush site, north of the village of Galashki and just a few miles from the major government-run camps for Chechen war refugees. It was not known whether the attackers were hit. The ambush was a departure for the battered rebels, who had not attacked Russian troops outside Chechnya's borders since the early stages of the Chechnya war last September. The war began last summer after rebels invaded the neighboring province of Dagestan, touching off a struggle with Russian troops along the two provinces' border. And in fact, it is not clear that the rebels, backed into southern Chechnya's mountains by the Russians, can widen the conflict beyond periodic ambushes like the one today. The Russian military says many guerrillas have melted into the civilian populations of Chechnya and Ingushetia. On the other hand, ambushes like today's make it clear that Russian forces have not restored order to the area, as spokesmen are now claiming. The rebels have staged damaging attacks on Russian convoys on the average of every two weeks since general fighting ended in March, killing as many as 32 soldiers in a single ambush. POSSESSION. In Andrzej Zulawski's striking but perplexing horror film, a tormented woman (Isabelle Adjani) has been cheating on her husband (Sam Neill) with a human lover and another partner who starts out with a set of tentacles. ''It's a movie that contains a certain amount of unseemly gore and makes no sense whatsoever,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times. That may have been because he was watching a theatrical version stripped down to around 80 minutes. Here, 45 minutes have been restored, making matters complete, if not that much clearer. 1981. Anchor Bay. $14.98; DVD, $29.98. 123 minutes.