 pres clinton has become crucial behind-the-scenes player in this year's elections, as tactical adviser for house, senate and gubernatorial candidates around country; clinton has become strategist in chief, using well-honed political instincts to bear while exerting presidential power to help other democrats, return house to democratic control and secure his own legacy with election of al gore; clinton is particularly engrosssed in his wife's bid for new york senate seat; fellow democrats like john b breaux and robert torricelli comment on clinton as consummate politician with best walking knowledge of anybody in american politics; diagram of yellow oval room that is setting for weekly political discussions; list of key participants (m) although the spotlight has shifted to vice president al gore and hillary rodham clinton, prominent democrats portray mr. clinton's role as that of an enormously valuable strategist in chief. they describe him as a sponge for absorbing political statistics -- a skill that is all the more enhanced because he has run twice in all 435 congressional districts. and he willingly brings his well-honed political instincts to bear while exerting the power of the presidency to elect democrats. although the spotlight has shifted to vice president al gore and hillary rodham clinton, prominent democrats portray mr. clinton's role as that of an enormously valuable strategist in chief. they describe him as a sponge for absorbing political statistics -- a skill that is all the more enhanced because he has run twice in all 435 congressional districts. and he willingly brings his well-honed political instincts to bear while exerting the power of the presidency to elect democrats. mr. clinton has been seeking election or re-election since 1974, when he was defeated in a race for congress. and the president's closest advisers say that although he is no longer running himself, his passion for electoral politics has never receded. they also cite another, more personal, reason for mr. clinton's deep involvement: he wants to burnish his own legacy with the election of mr. gore to succeed him, the installation of mrs. clinton as senator from new york and the return of the house to democratic control. the president is particularly engrossed in the first lady's race, and to a lesser degree in mr. gore's. but his involvement in campaigns from coast to coast is extraordinary. he suggested that mr. gore not write off north carolina in november, even though mr. clinton lost the state twice. if the gore campaign takes that advice, it may cause the bush campaign to rethink its own electoral tactics. others who have talked politics with mr. clinton said he was preoccupied with the need for democrats to win the loyalty of hispanic voters. they said he had even spoken in detail about the importance of married protestants. and, they said, he was particularly intrigued by contests in michigan, new jersey and florida, where mr. gore has been pressing his campaign amid the tumult over the administration's handling of the elian gonzalez case. mr. clinton still convenes political meetings twice a month or so in the ornate yellow oval room in the white house family quarters. the sessions are not as pressing as they were when they were held weekly before the 1996 campaign, and the group of participants, which often numbers close to two dozen, is usually larger than the more exclusive club of the past. mr. gore does not attend anymore. participants at the group's most recent meeting, in april, recalled that mr. clinton said he wanted to accept invitations to speak at college graduations in areas with high concentrations of minorities, like shiprock, n.m., where he thought his appearance would help spur interest in mr. gore's campaign. james carville, an architect of mr. clinton's victory in 1992, said of the president: ''if he calls me it would be to chat about gore and hillary. but i've had him tell me ideas for brochures in senate races. he's a rare combination of somebody who's got the brains and the gut.'' asked how often he takes advice from mr. clinton, tony coelho, mr. gore's campaign chairman, said: ''i'm not going to go there.'' being funny at the annual dinners of the alfalfa club, the gridiron club, and the associations of white house and broadcast correspondents, has become serious business in washington, and mr. katz is a regular writer on the circuit. ''a good joke will last a week,'' said mr. katz, who also helped write vice president al gore's speech at this year's gridiron dinner. ''and a bad joke will appear in their obituary.'' self-deprecation was also the centerpiece of vice president gore's successful monologues at the gridiron dinner, in 1994, 1997 and last march. at the 1994 dinner, mr. gore made fun of his reputation for stiffness by being wheeled into the dais on a handcart. this year, he told the assembled journalists that ''there are some things i won't do to become president. i won't hold a press conference.'' he also drew roars by asking plaintively: ''this isn't a fund-raiser, is it?'' but he did not miss a chance to lampoon his presumed republican rival for the presidency, gov. george w. bush of texas, who he said ''thinks fettuccine alfredo is the italian prime minister.'' in 1993, mr. katz wrote a speech for madeleine k. albright, who was then the united states ambassador  to the united nations, that sparked laughter from president clinton. he has since written for mr. clinton, mr. gore and hillary rodham clinton. mr. gore has improved his timing and delivery in recent years, but can still be a bit rigid. mr. bush has yet to make a major washington appearance as a humorist (he did a short speech at the alfalfa club in 1998) but his remarks did draw a few laughs at a recent republican fund-raising dinner. his appearance on the letterman show in march, however, drew chilly reviews. there's plenty of work to be done in hartford, no doubt about it. but one could counter mr. mcenroe's list with one equally convincing in its positive tone. among the items on such a list might be hartford's recent recapture of its glorious riverfront, the additions under way at the bushnell theater and the city's downtown library as well as the learning corridor project, which has already put a fresh face on the city's south end. there's plenty of work to be done in hartford, no doubt about it. but one could counter mr. mcenroe's list with one equally convincing in its positive tone. among the items on such a list might be hartford's recent recapture of its glorious riverfront, the additions under way at the bushnell theater and the city's downtown library as well as the learning corridor project, which has already put a fresh face on the city's south end. ''you now have a lot of fabrications, tall tales about the r.u.f.,'' eldred collins, the spokesman for the rebel group, said in an interview at mr. sankoh's compound today.  denying that the group was holding any peacekeepers hostage, he added, ''they are scattered in the bush because they do not know the terrain.'' education bill pending in senate is bogged down by partisan bickering as republicans and democrats try to showcase opposing remedies for ailing schools; debate has been infused with rancor as republican presidential candidate gov george w bush and democratic rival vice pres al gore have turned education into signature issue; angry democrats deny bungling bill to revise and extending federal school programs that come up for review every six years; accuse republicans of trying to jam through proposals that would devastate low-income schools; republicans accuse democrats of purposely trying to thwart bill in order to label them as anti-education and hold advantage with voters on issue; say democrats are beholden to teachers unions and are so entrenched in status quo that they wish to try nothing new (m) instead of trying to write bipartisan legislation, republicans and democrats have seized the debate to showcase their opposing remedies for ailing schools. the fact that vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush of texas have turned education into a signature issue has only served to infuse this year's senate debate with partisan rancor. speculation has been especially intense since gov. george w. bush of texas raised the possibility that he might choose gov. tom ridge of pennsylvania as a running mate. not only does mr. ridge hail from an important battleground state with 23 electoral votes, but he also happens to be a close friend. still, whenever governor ridge's name comes up, the point is almost always made that unlike governor bush, governor ridge favors abortion rights, hardly something that will endear him to the powerful republican right. no matter, governor bush has said time and again, his friend merits consideration as a top prospect. speculation has been especially intense since gov. george w. bush of texas raised the possibility that he might choose gov. tom ridge of pennsylvania as a running mate. not only does mr. ridge hail from an important battleground state with 23 electoral votes, but he also happens to be a close friend. still, whenever governor ridge's name comes up, the point is almost always made that unlike governor bush, governor ridge favors abortion rights, hardly something that will endear him to the powerful republican right. no matter, governor bush has said time and again, his friend merits consideration as a top prospect. back in the bush era, when americans feared that the japanese might take over, rapaille was summoned by a corporate sponsor to find out how the united states could adapt asian high-efficiency management concepts, like ''do it right the first time.'' ''bill clinton fascinates me,'' he said. ''americans loved him. why? because clinton made mistakes. it means he was learning something and getting better.'' rapaille said that in the late 80's, lee atwater, then working for george bush p re, hired him to do an archetype study of the presidency. though financing ran out before rapaille could complete his work, he was able to gather useful material in the word-association sessions. participants compared the chief executive to a ''movie character''; they said he could ''make people see things.'' from this, rapaille was able to identify the core emotional nubbin. fatherhood? celebration? nationalism? no, no. the presidency is: ''cheap entertainment.'' ''gore is boring,'' rapaille said. ''this is a real problem. bush is not very intelligent. but then, who cares? americans have never been impressed by intellectuals.'' so bush's mediocre mind is not nearly the handicap that gore's leaden personality is. rapaille gives bush the edge, but neither one of them interests him much. he openly pines for bill clinton the icon (not the politician). mistakes weren't clinton's only asset. america's code, according to rapaille, is built around ''hope.'' that's why clinton's slogan in 1992 ''was simply brilliant,'' rapaille said. ''i still believe in a place called ''hope.''' he's almost a genius.'' clinton had instinctively hit the grand slam of presidential codes. mistakes. cheap entertainment. hope. jennifer french bush, the daughter of virginia jones bush of old saybrook, conn., and william clyde bush of bronxville, n.y., was married yesterday to thomas mortimer evans, the son of wanda l. plumer of upper marlboro, md., and george h. evans of islesboro, me. the rev. christopher h. neely, a united methodist minister, performed the ceremony at pink sands, a resort in dunmore town, harbour island, the bahamas. jennifer french bush, the daughter of virginia jones bush of old saybrook, conn., and william clyde bush of bronxville, n.y., was married yesterday to thomas mortimer evans, the son of wanda l. plumer of upper marlboro, md., and george h. evans of islesboro, me. the rev. christopher h. neely, a united methodist minister, performed the ceremony at pink sands, a resort in dunmore town, harbour island, the bahamas. saturday's telecast of the kentucky derby marked the end of a long run for abc, which had been the triple crown network for many years. next year the derby will move to nbc as part of a five-year triple crown package. race officials hope the switch will provide more promotion and exposure for the derby, which has had declining ratings. the derby, however, falls in the middle of the national basketball association playoffs, which nbc also televises. churchill downs officials realize their telecast may be sandwiched between n.b.a. games -- for better or worse. . . . a former president and a presidential candidate were derby guests of william farish, the churchill downs president. former president george bush and his son gov. george w. bush of texas joined farish, a friend of the bushes. the former president had been to the derby before; his son made his first visit. maybe the hollywood wheeler-dealer archetype had finally gone too far? don't bet on it. he's still out there, hiding in the bushes, just as savage and seductive as always. the ''it'' was, perhaps, the most uncomfortable moment of political humor of the television season. after weeks of goading by mr. letterman, gov. george w. bush of texas agreed to appear by satellite on his show, an encounter that was, by most assessments, a disaster for the republican presidential candidate. mr. bush, hampered by the split-second time delay and projecting an air of being led on a forced march, offered one lame quip after another, including a pun about mr. letterman's recent heart operation so strained that it left the host staring, mortified, into the camera. having a serious impact on real events is, of course, the last thing on the minds of most of the writers and performers of political satire on television. ''i just want the politicians and the people who watch our show to know that this is a place where the buck honestly stops,'' said bill maher, the no-nonsense host of ''politically incorrect,'' abc's freewheeling after-hours talkfest. still, as the bush appearance on ''letterman'' illustrates, political comedy relies ever more intensively on the willing (and in some instances unwitting) participation of actual officeholders and officeseekers. he is aware, though, that his blunt style has power. asked, for instance, if he had invited mr. bush on his show, mr. maher laughed at the improbability of such an appearance. ''i've been so hard on him,'' he said. (he added that he was not a fan of vice president al gore, either.) it may be just as well that mr. bush steers clear of the program, given his performance on ''letterman,'' a show that has become a kind of political proving ground. gerard mulligan, a longtime staff writer, said that mr. letterman ''discovered inadvertently'' just how gravely candidates respond to his comic denunciations. for weeks, he complained on the air about hillary rodham clinton's refusal to appear on the show after announcing her campaign for the senate seat from new york. the connecticut grand opera and orchestra's general director and principal conductor, laurence gilgore, saw ''three penny opera'' as a continuation of the company's past programming including avant-garde productions of offenbach's ''bluebeard's castle'' and mozart's ''don giovanni.'' homer bush's run-scoring double gave toronto a 6-5 lead in the seventh, but the indians rallied for two runs on diaz's single. toronto starter chris carpenter left after walking jim thome. reliever paul quantrill then gave up a hit to richie sexson and walked travis fryman before diaz singled to right. may 16 -- a dinner at the ellis island immigration museum with former president and mrs. george bush will raise money for americares, the humanitarian aid and disaster relief organization. the evening begins with a cocktail reception at 6:30, with dinner and a performance by the united nations international school concert choir to follow at 7:30. ferries to ellis island leave from battery park beginning at 6. tickets, $1,000, from (203) 972-5510. and yet there are moments that suggest something more, such as this moving passage, dry as a bone, in which tuffy recalls his childhood: ''it was underneath these boughs a 10-year-old winston watched a group of boys rape and beat a jogger, kicking her motionless body into the mulberry bushes and leaving her for dead. when he was a little older he nearly decapitated bicyclists by knotting the ends of a section of fishing wire to carpenter nails, stretching the filament across the footpath and hammering the nails into the trees about shoulder high. at night the line was invisible . . . lifting the biker off the bicycle so cleanly, the riderless bike would coast straight down the hill and into the waiting hands of winston and his friends. . . . then winston would begin to cry.'' some other bad early averages of players who aren't new to their teams: tony clark, .155; rey ordonez, .179; ray lankford, .187; homer bush, .192; jose offerman, .198; rickey henderson, .203; cliff floyd, .203; and eric karros, .204. a couple of weeks ago, i picked up a new magazine called simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' to help improve your score, it offers a web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' when i got home and checked the mail, i found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by bulgarians and brazilian tribesmen). pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''go from zero to hero.'' a couple of weeks ago, i picked up a new magazine called simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' to help improve your score, it offers a web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' when i got home and checked the mail, i found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by bulgarians and brazilian tribesmen). pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''go from zero to hero.'' ''this is the latest meaningless proposal from an administration desperately searching for a legacy that will endure after the evening news ends. having already claimed credit for solving every problem under the sun, the clinton-gore team has apparently taken to espousing solutions in search of new problems.'' editorial assesses recent exchanges between presidential candidates george w bush and al gore on various policy issues; sees gore as policy aficionado with instinct for verbal combat, with bush revealed as someone who prefers to be aloof from detail, but who may not be able to pull that off with ease of ronald reagan in a series of brisk exchanges last week, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush laid out their disagreements over gun control, foreign policy, tax cuts, social security and mr. bush's record in texas. perhaps because he is struggling to stay even with mr. bush in the polls, mr. gore was on the attack almost every day, using highly personal language to derogate his opponent's policies. the subtext, however, was not about policy. it was about experience and temperament. mr. gore, with his customary lack of subtlety, was suggesting that mr. bush is an untested leader with half-baked ideas.  stressing the value of experience is a time-honored strategy for the more seasoned candidate in presidential contests. but it comes with no guarantee of success. otherwise we would never have had presidents named carter, reagan and clinton. jimmy carter has been on both sides of the experience strategy. he won as a new face in 1976, but when he tried in 1980 to depict the republican challenger, ronald reagan, as unready for the white house, the tactic backfired. mr. reagan was a deft campaigner and debater who skillfully parried mr. carter's attempt to make him appear a lightweight. that bit of history bears a cautionary message for mr. gore. even though the vice president is the best debater in presidential politics today, mr. bush could gain significantly with a better-than-expected performance. for now, he is arguing that the vice president's extreme attacks distort his record and insult the voters. in a series of brisk exchanges last week, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush laid out their disagreements over gun control, foreign policy, tax cuts, social security and mr. bush's record in texas. perhaps because he is struggling to stay even with mr. bush in the polls, mr. gore was on the attack almost every day, using highly personal language to derogate his opponent's policies. the subtext, however, was not about policy. it was about experience and temperament. mr. gore, with his customary lack of subtlety, was suggesting that mr. bush is an untested leader with half-baked ideas.  stressing the value of experience is a time-honored strategy for the more seasoned candidate in presidential contests. but it comes with no guarantee of success. otherwise we would never have had presidents named carter, reagan and clinton. jimmy carter has been on both sides of the experience strategy. he won as a new face in 1976, but when he tried in 1980 to depict the republican challenger, ronald reagan, as unready for the white house, the tactic backfired. mr. reagan was a deft campaigner and debater who skillfully parried mr. carter's attempt to make him appear a lightweight. that bit of history bears a cautionary message for mr. gore. even though the vice president is the best debater in presidential politics today, mr. bush could gain significantly with a better-than-expected performance. for now, he is arguing that the vice president's extreme attacks distort his record and insult the voters. down the road, however, he will have to engage mr. gore's points more directly. the vice president is right to raise questions about mr. bush's achievement in education, the environment, health care and budget issues. he may have exaggerated mr. bush's lack of budget experience, but his point that texas has a weak-governor system is a valid one. on foreign policy, mr. gore is also raising some fair questions about mr. bush, though there is a fine line between the license granted politicians who speak in generalities and outright distortion. the vice president accuses the governor of having a cold-war ''mindset'' that treats china and russia as ''enemies.'' mr. bush says he has gone out of his way to assert the contrary. but mr. bush would withdraw loans and credits to russia over its crackdown in chechnya and abrogate the antiballistic missile treaty. these two steps would be dangerously confrontational. even so, mr. gore goes too far in accusing mr. bush of being an isolationist. as his father's son, he would be heir to policies -- and advisers -- that are international in outlook. as for china's status as a trade partner, mr. bush's position is the same as that of the clinton administration. the arena where mr. gore has used his toughest language, surprisingly, is the budget. he repeatedly labels as perilous both the governor's $1.3 trillion tax-cut plan and his proposal to carve private investment accounts out of the social security system. in fact, mr. gore's reliance on the word ''risky'' for almost every bush proposal probably should inspire someone to send the vice president a thesaurus. his point, however, is right. the tax cut, which mr. gore says would actually cost more than $2 trillion if you included the extra interest expenses from not paying down the debt, is ill-advised. and mr. bush has not addressed warnings from such stellar republicans as alan greenspan that a big tax cut now could hurt the economy. it is of course an exaggeration for mr. gore to say that mr. bush has a ''secret plan'' for social security. there is something to be said for mr. bush's not getting lost in details, as former senator bill bradley did earlier this year on the health issue. but the governor needs to flesh out his ideas on social security privatization. he must also explain how he would pay for his tax cut and at the same time increase military and education spending without jeopardizing other vital programs. there is a risk that the public could be turned off by bitter exchanges over policy minutiae and budget numbers. but such debates take the measure of the candidates. for mr. gore they reveal a policy aficionado who also has a gladiatorial instinct for verbal combat. for mr. bush they reveal someone who prefers to be aloof from detail, but who may not be able to pull that off with the ease of a ronald reagan. as the debate over experience continues, the candidates will be eyeing the polls for a reading on what the voters make of mr. bush's desire to float above the fray or mr. gore's desire to plunge into it. vice president al gore went on the offensive again and again last week, using a series of campaign appearances across the country not only to advance his own policy initiatives, but to sow suspicion about the goals of his presumed opponent in the general election, gov. george w. bush of texas. vice president al gore went on the offensive again and again last week, using a series of campaign appearances across the country not only to advance his own policy initiatives, but to sow suspicion about the goals of his presumed opponent in the general election, gov. george w. bush of texas. ''maybe he would pick charlton heston as the next surgeon general,'' mr. gore said in chicago, referring to the financial backing republicans are getting from the national rifle association, whose president is mr. heston. mr. gore's hammering away was a leading indicator of a new, more aggressive phase of the campaign. the retreat of elian gonzalez with his father to a maryland estate seems to have opened up space again on america's front page for campaign machinations, much of them testier. in california, a conservative group, shape the debate, has begun running anti-gore commercials; last week, handgun control introduced a spot that said mr. bush had signed a law that allows concealed guns in churches and amusement parks. the ammunition for mr. gore's attack was provided on wednesday, when it was disclosed that the nation's gun companies had broken off settlement talks with 31 municipalities across the nation over lawsuits relating to gun violence, in hopes mr. bush would win the presidency and usher in a more favorable environment. (in other signs of the changing environment, a panel of republicans proposed altering the current primary system, to allow only smaller states to vote first.) mr. bush, meanwhile, professed to be unfazed by mr. gore's jabs, although he couldn't help expressing some disgust. ''totally pathetic,'' mr. bush said to a reporter after being informed that mr. gore tells hispanic audiences that he had hoped his second grandchild would be born on cinco de mayo. we applaud the support for expanding drug and alcohol treatment expressed by al gore and george w. bush (news article, may 3). we applaud the support for expanding drug and alcohol treatment expressed by al gore and george w. bush (news article, may 3). ''they wouldn't meet with us,'' said stephen jenkins, a coordinator for make the road by walking, a bushwick community group that was represented at the meeting. ''we met with a lower-level supervisor, and he said he would pass on our message to them. but we haven't heard from them. it's frustrating.'' comment on clinton administration's new penchant for promoting policies, like china trade, as national security issues, and vice pres gore's call for 'forward engagement' on us foreign policy; photo (m) half a century later, the highways he built can barely handle a 5 p.m. crush of commuters in their s.u.v.'s, much less a panicky evacuation of the capital. but if he were alive today, the old five-star might smile to hear the latest clinton white house strategy. the president and his national security adviser, samuel r. berger, have taken up a mantra that granting permanent ''normal'' trading status to china isn't just about profit opportunities, it's also about national security. at the same time, the administration has labeled the aids crisis in africa a threat to national security, and vice president al gore has raised similar fears with his ''new security agenda,'' which includes global warming. mr. gore, meanwhile, used a foreign policy speech last weekend to argue for the need for ''forward engagement'' (presumably a gore-ism for trying to think ahead). he ticked off -- in no particular order of priority -- pandemics, economic inequality, global warming and the digital divide as potential security problems that had to be nipped in the bud. in mr. gore's case, the political calculation is obvious: he is trying to portray his opponent, george w. bush, as a man caught in what he termed a cold-war mindset that sees national security only in the most conventional terms. advisers to mr. bush, eager to portray the current occupants of the white house as long on butter and short on guns, carry the argument one step further: by making the list of security threats too long, they argue, the clinton administration risks taking its eye off more imminent threats. or as paul wolfowitz, dean of the school of advanced international studies at johns hopkins university and one of those advisers, wrote recently, aids in africa and the environment are serious problems, but calling them  national security threats carries ''the implication that conventional security is no longer something we need to worry much about.'' in an unusual display of public dissension, some liberal party members have said in recent days that they would oppose backing mr. giuliani, saying it would be a betrayal of the party's philosophy to send another republican to the senate.  and if mr. harding backs mr. giuliani, he risks losing a presidential candidate: mrs. clinton's aides have been pushing vice president al gore to decline the liberal party line if the party backs mr. giuliani. mr. gore's aides said yesterday that he might accede to mrs. clinton's request. they said he would put off the decision as long as possible, giving him time to assess whether he needs the liberal party to win in new york (right now, his aides think he does not), as well as to see whether mr. giuliani stays in the race. peter ragone, a spokesman for mr. gore's campaign, said that the vice president was now beginning a closer look at the thicket of independent parties in new york, and that he would ''consider the endorsement'' of any party that shared his views. however, mr. ragone added, ''the vice president is a strong supporter of hillary clinton, and our campaign will do everything we can to elect her the next senator from new york.'' ''what he did today -- with hillary, no less -- they both went and knelt at the altar of ray harding, who in fact gave us bella abzug, john lindsay and mario cuomo,'' mr. long said. ''that sends a clear signal to the world that he wants to run with al gore, he wants to keep the liberal tradition, and i don't know who the real giuliani is.'' one must be hard-core to even contemplate a worrell, because as the fleet hopscotches its way up the atlantic seaboard -- each leg averages about 100 miles, and two of them are overnight runs -- the air and water temperatures plummet while the odds of being ambushed by a weather front thundering off the coast shorten. re ''turning a kiosk into a borough gateway'' (april 2): the north face of the kiosk, nearest flatbush avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''no standing at all times.'' re ''turning a kiosk into a borough gateway'' (april 2): the north face of the kiosk, nearest flatbush avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''no standing at all times.'' fortunately, since the craigs own 45,000 acres of the surrounding countryside, you can go on guided and guarded walks to work off some of the food, or on morning horseback safaris, ending in a delicious breakfast cooked out in the bush, so you can eat your eggs and bacon watching zebra and even rhino watching you, then walk back. wilderness trails, lewa downs, kenya, is represented by bush homes of east africa in nairobi, (254-2) 571661, fax (254-2) 571665; www.bush-homes.co.ke. rates start at $660 a night for two in a room, including meals, table wine, beer and activities. my trip to the bush was littered with the footprints of frustrated sightseers. ''never saw one,'' said an american tourist i met in new delhi. ''just go to see the scenery,'' a veteran traveler told me before i left. ''good luck,'' a naturalist friend said with a sympathetic shrug. even my guidebook pointed out that many travelers ''feel hard done by when it comes to tiger spotting.'' john harms center for the arts ''arborealis,'' photography by cali gorevic. through may 24. hours: mondays through saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 30 north van brunt street, englewood. (201) 567-3600. ''You now have a lot of fabrications, tall tales about the R.U.F.,'' Eldred Collins, the spokesman for the rebel group, said in an interview at Mr. Sankoh's compound today.  Denying that the group was holding any peacekeepers hostage, he added, ''They are scattered in the bush because they do not know the terrain.'' Maybe the Hollywood wheeler-dealer archetype had finally gone too far? Don't bet on it. He's still out there, hiding in the bushes, just as savage and seductive as always. The Connecticut Grand Opera and Orchestra's general director and principal conductor, Laurence Gilgore, saw ''Three Penny Opera'' as a continuation of the company's past programming including avant-garde productions of Offenbach's ''Bluebeard's Castle'' and Mozart's ''Don Giovanni.'' And yet there are moments that suggest something more, such as this moving passage, dry as a bone, in which Tuffy recalls his childhood: ''It was underneath these boughs a 10-year-old Winston watched a group of boys rape and beat a jogger, kicking her motionless body into the mulberry bushes and leaving her for dead. When he was a little older he nearly decapitated bicyclists by knotting the ends of a section of fishing wire to carpenter nails, stretching the filament across the footpath and hammering the nails into the trees about shoulder high. At night the line was invisible . . . lifting the biker off the bicycle so cleanly, the riderless bike would coast straight down the hill and into the waiting hands of Winston and his friends. . . . Then Winston would begin to cry.'' A couple of weeks ago, I picked up a new magazine called Simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' To help improve your score, it offers a Web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' When I got home and checked the mail, I found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by Bulgarians and Brazilian tribesmen). Pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''Go From Zero to Hero.'' A couple of weeks ago, I picked up a new magazine called Simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' To help improve your score, it offers a Web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' When I got home and checked the mail, I found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by Bulgarians and Brazilian tribesmen). Pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''Go From Zero to Hero.'' One must be hard-core to even contemplate a Worrell, because as the fleet hopscotches its way up the Atlantic seaboard -- each leg averages about 100 miles, and two of them are overnight runs -- the air and water temperatures plummet while the odds of being ambushed by a weather front thundering off the coast shorten. Re ''Turning a Kiosk Into a Borough Gateway'' (April 2): The north face of the kiosk, nearest Flatbush Avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''No standing at all times.'' Re ''Turning a Kiosk Into a Borough Gateway'' (April 2): The north face of the kiosk, nearest Flatbush Avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''No standing at all times.'' Fortunately, since the Craigs own 45,000 acres of the surrounding countryside, you can go on guided and guarded walks to work off some of the food, or on morning horseback safaris, ending in a delicious breakfast cooked out in the bush, so you can eat your eggs and bacon watching zebra and even rhino watching you, then walk back. Wilderness Trails, Lewa Downs, Kenya, is represented by Bush Homes of East Africa in Nairobi, (254-2) 571661, fax (254-2) 571665; www.bush-homes.co.ke. Rates start at $660 a night for two in a room, including meals, table wine, beer and activities. My trip to the bush was littered with the footprints of frustrated sightseers. ''Never saw one,'' said an American tourist I met in New Delhi. ''Just go to see the scenery,'' a veteran traveler told me before I left. ''Good luck,'' a naturalist friend said with a sympathetic shrug. Even my guidebook pointed out that many travelers ''feel hard done by when it comes to tiger spotting.'' ''You now have a lot of fabrications, tall tales about the R.U.F.,'' Eldred Collins, the spokesman for the rebel group, said in an interview at Mr. Sankoh's compound today.  Denying that the group was holding any peacekeepers hostage, he added, ''They are scattered in the bush because they do not know the terrain.'' Maybe the Hollywood wheeler-dealer archetype had finally gone too far? Don't bet on it. He's still out there, hiding in the bushes, just as savage and seductive as always. The Connecticut Grand Opera and Orchestra's general director and principal conductor, Laurence Gilgore, saw ''Three Penny Opera'' as a continuation of the company's past programming including avant-garde productions of Offenbach's ''Bluebeard's Castle'' and Mozart's ''Don Giovanni.'' And yet there are moments that suggest something more, such as this moving passage, dry as a bone, in which Tuffy recalls his childhood: ''It was underneath these boughs a 10-year-old Winston watched a group of boys rape and beat a jogger, kicking her motionless body into the mulberry bushes and leaving her for dead. When he was a little older he nearly decapitated bicyclists by knotting the ends of a section of fishing wire to carpenter nails, stretching the filament across the footpath and hammering the nails into the trees about shoulder high. At night the line was invisible . . . lifting the biker off the bicycle so cleanly, the riderless bike would coast straight down the hill and into the waiting hands of Winston and his friends. . . . Then Winston would begin to cry.'' A couple of weeks ago, I picked up a new magazine called Simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' To help improve your score, it offers a Web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' When I got home and checked the mail, I found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by Bulgarians and Brazilian tribesmen). Pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''Go From Zero to Hero.'' A couple of weeks ago, I picked up a new magazine called Simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' To help improve your score, it offers a Web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' When I got home and checked the mail, I found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by Bulgarians and Brazilian tribesmen). Pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''Go From Zero to Hero.'' One must be hard-core to even contemplate a Worrell, because as the fleet hopscotches its way up the Atlantic seaboard -- each leg averages about 100 miles, and two of them are overnight runs -- the air and water temperatures plummet while the odds of being ambushed by a weather front thundering off the coast shorten. Re ''Turning a Kiosk Into a Borough Gateway'' (April 2): The north face of the kiosk, nearest Flatbush Avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''No standing at all times.'' Re ''Turning a Kiosk Into a Borough Gateway'' (April 2): The north face of the kiosk, nearest Flatbush Avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''No standing at all times.'' Fortunately, since the Craigs own 45,000 acres of the surrounding countryside, you can go on guided and guarded walks to work off some of the food, or on morning horseback safaris, ending in a delicious breakfast cooked out in the bush, so you can eat your eggs and bacon watching zebra and even rhino watching you, then walk back. Wilderness Trails, Lewa Downs, Kenya, is represented by Bush Homes of East Africa in Nairobi, (254-2) 571661, fax (254-2) 571665; www.bush-homes.co.ke. Rates start at $660 a night for two in a room, including meals, table wine, beer and activities. My trip to the bush was littered with the footprints of frustrated sightseers. ''Never saw one,'' said an American tourist I met in New Delhi. ''Just go to see the scenery,'' a veteran traveler told me before I left. ''Good luck,'' a naturalist friend said with a sympathetic shrug. Even my guidebook pointed out that many travelers ''feel hard done by when it comes to tiger spotting.'' ''You now have a lot of fabrications, tall tales about the R.U.F.,'' Eldred Collins, the spokesman for the rebel group, said in an interview at Mr. Sankoh's compound today.  Denying that the group was holding any peacekeepers hostage, he added, ''They are scattered in the bush because they do not know the terrain.'' Maybe the Hollywood wheeler-dealer archetype had finally gone too far? Don't bet on it. He's still out there, hiding in the bushes, just as savage and seductive as always. The Connecticut Grand Opera and Orchestra's general director and principal conductor, Laurence Gilgore, saw ''Three Penny Opera'' as a continuation of the company's past programming including avant-garde productions of Offenbach's ''Bluebeard's Castle'' and Mozart's ''Don Giovanni.'' And yet there are moments that suggest something more, such as this moving passage, dry as a bone, in which Tuffy recalls his childhood: ''It was underneath these boughs a 10-year-old Winston watched a group of boys rape and beat a jogger, kicking her motionless body into the mulberry bushes and leaving her for dead. When he was a little older he nearly decapitated bicyclists by knotting the ends of a section of fishing wire to carpenter nails, stretching the filament across the footpath and hammering the nails into the trees about shoulder high. At night the line was invisible . . . lifting the biker off the bicycle so cleanly, the riderless bike would coast straight down the hill and into the waiting hands of Winston and his friends. . . . Then Winston would begin to cry.'' A couple of weeks ago, I picked up a new magazine called Simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' To help improve your score, it offers a Web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' When I got home and checked the mail, I found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by Bulgarians and Brazilian tribesmen). Pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''Go From Zero to Hero.'' A couple of weeks ago, I picked up a new magazine called Simplicity, whose premiere issue features ''a quiz to test your happiness quotient.'' To help improve your score, it offers a Web site, www.simplicityonline.com, dedicated to creating ''a virtual universe that's not just about making your life easier, but also more euphoric.'' When I got home and checked the mail, I found another interesting artifact: a brochure promising happiness from a few spurts of a new ''stud spray'' (derived from ''bushy herbs'' favored by Bulgarians and Brazilian tribesmen). Pump some under the tongue, and -- presto! -- you'll ''Go From Zero to Hero.'' One must be hard-core to even contemplate a Worrell, because as the fleet hopscotches its way up the Atlantic seaboard -- each leg averages about 100 miles, and two of them are overnight runs -- the air and water temperatures plummet while the odds of being ambushed by a weather front thundering off the coast shorten. Re ''Turning a Kiosk Into a Borough Gateway'' (April 2): The north face of the kiosk, nearest Flatbush Avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''No standing at all times.'' Re ''Turning a Kiosk Into a Borough Gateway'' (April 2): The north face of the kiosk, nearest Flatbush Avenue, was -- until it was removed a couple of years ago -- the location of my all-time favorite traffic sign: ''No standing at all times.'' Fortunately, since the Craigs own 45,000 acres of the surrounding countryside, you can go on guided and guarded walks to work off some of the food, or on morning horseback safaris, ending in a delicious breakfast cooked out in the bush, so you can eat your eggs and bacon watching zebra and even rhino watching you, then walk back. Wilderness Trails, Lewa Downs, Kenya, is represented by Bush Homes of East Africa in Nairobi, (254-2) 571661, fax (254-2) 571665; www.bush-homes.co.ke. Rates start at $660 a night for two in a room, including meals, table wine, beer and activities. My trip to the bush was littered with the footprints of frustrated sightseers. ''Never saw one,'' said an American tourist I met in New Delhi. ''Just go to see the scenery,'' a veteran traveler told me before I left. ''Good luck,'' a naturalist friend said with a sympathetic shrug. Even my guidebook pointed out that many travelers ''feel hard done by when it comes to tiger spotting.''