 microsoft says it has lobbied both likely presidential nominees, vice president al gore and gov. george w. bush, to influence their views of the case and to counter lobbying by its competitors. mr. bush has made a few unspecific comments about the case sympathetic to microsoft, while mr. gore has declined to discuss it. vice pres al gore says he met with sen john mccain in washington, dc, on april 30, and that they diiscussed campaign finance reform (m) gov. george w. bush can only hope that his meeting next week with senator john mccain goes as well as mr. mccain's meeting with vice president al gore. mr. mccain met on sunday for about 20 minutes with mr. gore at the naval observatory in washington, the vice president's official residence. both were appearing on cnn's ''late edition,'' which was being filmed at the residence. when mr. gore learned on saturday that mr. mccain would be under his own roof on sunday, he called the arizona senator and invited him to come over early for a private chat. gov. george w. bush can only hope that his meeting next week with senator john mccain goes as well as mr. mccain's meeting with vice president al gore. mr. mccain met on sunday for about 20 minutes with mr. gore at the naval observatory in washington, the vice president's official residence. both were appearing on cnn's ''late edition,'' which was being filmed at the residence. when mr. gore learned on saturday that mr. mccain would be under his own roof on sunday, he called the arizona senator and invited him to come over early for a private chat. ''we're friends,'' mr. gore told reporters later, noting that the two had served in the house and senate together. ''it's not that complicated.'' he said he understood that mr. mccain, who has suspended his own presidential campaign, would be endorsing mr. bush, a fellow republican, for president. but ever since mr. gore locked up the democratic nomination, he has been invoking mr. mccain's name and making an overt play for his independent-minded supporters. on sunday night, mr. gore seemed eager to fill reporters in on the details of their get-together, uncharacteristically allowing camera crews to film him on his airplane discussing the matter as he flew from boston to washington. mr. gore said the two discussed campaign finance reform, mr. mccain's signature issue and one that mr. gore is advancing in his campaign. mr. gore has said the mccain-feingold proposal to eliminate so-called soft money from campaigns would be his no. 1 domestic initiative, a move some critics suspect is an effort to inoculate himself against criticism that his own fund-raising has been too aggressive. the sunday session thus struck some as an effort by mr. gore to bask in mr. mccain's credibility on the issue, or what the political columnist mark shields calls ''innocence by association.'' the vice president also wanted to signal that he could work with republicans, a theme that mr. bush has emphasized recently while suggesting that mr. gore was excessively partisan. ''i will regularly and routinely reach across party lines,'' mr. gore said on sunday night, adding that his ''natural instincts'' were to work in a bipartisan manner. mr. gore went even further in this direction by suggesting, in answer to a question, that he might even name a republican as his vice president. ''i think that's unlikely,'' he said, but ''i would not rule it out.'' while the cameras were still rolling, mr. gore also poked fun at his own comments about the elian gonzalez case, which has caused him much political heartache. but the biggest laugh came when mr. gore referred to a ''bit part'' that he had played in a well-received video that president clinton had made to show at the annual white house correspondents' dinner on saturday night. a reporter on the plane remembered that mr. gore had made a brief appearance in the video but said, ''i've forgotten what it was,'' inadvertently summarizing mr. gore's longtime difficulty in establishing himself outside mr. clinton's shadow. rubin plays down spot on ticket  former treasury secretary robert e. rubin, one of many prominent democrats mentioned as a potential running mate for vice president al gore, seemed to reject the idea yesterday, calling it ''a curious notion.'' discussing economic policy and what he saw as key issues in the campaign, mr. rubin said that while he has been around politics for many years, including a stint as a democratic fund-raiser, he viewed running for and serving in office as a special field, ''something unto itself.'' mr. rubin suggested that it was unwise to choose a nominee who had not been tested by other campaigns. ''i have never run for office,'' he said. ''you don't want somebody in a presidential campaign, which is the ultimate of political experience in this country, who hasn't been tested by running before.'' mr. rubin spoke on political points, the webcast of the new york times and abc news. nader courts auto workers  the consumer advocate and green party presidential candidate ralph nader discussed an endorsement yesterday with leaders of the united automobile workers in detroit. mr. nader said that he did not directly ask for an endorsement and that the union would not endorse a candidate until after a congressional vote, scheduled for late may, on establishing permanent normal trade relations with china. mr. nader, the auto workers and other major unions oppose the bill. instead of asking for endorsements, mr. nader said: ''i just tell people what we're doing.'' union officials were unavailable for comment. the union, which has criticized president clinton's trade policies, broke with the a.f.l.-c.i.o. in october, when the labor federation endorsed vice president al gore. russia: police bodies found  the military said it had found the bodies of nine russian policemen near the chechen town of vedeno. the policemen came from the perm region of russia and were part of a column ambushed on march 29. the discovery raises the death toll from that ambush to at least 36. chechen rebels claim to have taken the nine policemen prisoner and executed them after moscow refused to turn over a russian officer accused of killing a chechen woman. administration officials used the news to strengthen their claim to being a force for fiscal prudence and the guardian of economic expansion. they sought to contrast their focus on debt reduction to calls from republicans, who have a majority in congress, and from gov. george w. bush of texas, the presumptive republican presidential nominee, for big tax cuts. maybe the only thing to do is go national. next time al gore or george bush comes to your town, ask him what he'd do to crack down on hog lagoons. one of them might have an answer, and at least it might liven things up. mccain-gore meeting  senator john mccain and vice president al gore met for 20 minutes on sunday. mr. gore said they discussed changing campaign financing, mr. mccain's signature issue and one that mr. gore is also advancing. mr. mccain is to meet with gov. george w. bush next week. howard manas letter on excuse that gov george w bush is not to blame for texas's social problems; asks what, besides his name, then qualifies bush for presidency if he has accomplished so little in texas (s) re ''what a texas record can't tell'' (op-ed, april 28): paul burka is trying to get across the point that gov. george w. bush should not and cannot be blamed for most of the social problems and deficiencies that texas has because that conservative state has long-held restraints on what its governors can accomplish politically. re ''what a texas record can't tell'' (op-ed, april 28): paul burka is trying to get across the point that gov. george w. bush should not and cannot be blamed for most of the social problems and deficiencies that texas has because that conservative state has long-held restraints on what its governors can accomplish politically. my question is, if governor bush has accomplished little as texas's chief executive, how is he qualified to serve as president of the united states? basically, he is running without any track record. perhaps if his name weren't bush, he would just be one of the also-rans who took part in this year's republican primaries. george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- atlanta, atlantic city, new york george w. bush -- austin, tex.  al gore -- atlanta, atlantic city, new york carl birman letter takes offense at suggestion that all gays would vote as bloc for al gore and democratic party (s) i am offended that elizabeth birch of the human rights campaign, a leading gay group, saw fit to speak on behalf of the movement when she said ''we must elect al gore as president of the united states'' (news article, may 1). i am offended that elizabeth birch of the human rights campaign, a leading gay group, saw fit to speak on behalf of the movement when she said ''we must elect al gore as president of the united states'' (news article, may 1). it may shock ms. birch, but lots of gays oppose mr. gore and resent being taken for granted by the democratic party. like the millions of ordinary americans of all backgrounds, we middle-of-the-road gays are still outraged by the scandals and immorality of the present administration, and we yearn for a return to decency, honesty and virtue in the white house. if that means voting for george w. bush, so be it. we are savvy enough to balance our commitment to equal rights for gays with our commitment to the country's values and integrity. last week, for example, the republican national committee brought in $21.3 million -- the most ever raised in a single event -- at its  gala in washington saluting the party's apparent presidential nominee, gov. george w. bush. the republicans received six-figure contributions -- and fund-raising assistance -- from philip morris, at&t and the national rifle association, all three of which are among the most generous soft-money contributors to the party this year. the democrats hope  to raise a similar amount at a tribute to president clinton later this month. RUSSIA: POLICE BODIES FOUND  The military said it had found the bodies of nine Russian policemen near the Chechen town of Vedeno. The policemen came from the Perm region of Russia and were part of a column ambushed on March 29. The discovery raises the death toll from that ambush to at least 36. Chechen rebels claim to have taken the nine policemen prisoner and executed them after Moscow refused to turn over a Russian officer accused of killing a Chechen woman. RUSSIA: POLICE BODIES FOUND  The military said it had found the bodies of nine Russian policemen near the Chechen town of Vedeno. The policemen came from the Perm region of Russia and were part of a column ambushed on March 29. The discovery raises the death toll from that ambush to at least 36. Chechen rebels claim to have taken the nine policemen prisoner and executed them after Moscow refused to turn over a Russian officer accused of killing a Chechen woman. RUSSIA: POLICE BODIES FOUND  The military said it had found the bodies of nine Russian policemen near the Chechen town of Vedeno. The policemen came from the Perm region of Russia and were part of a column ambushed on March 29. The discovery raises the death toll from that ambush to at least 36. Chechen rebels claim to have taken the nine policemen prisoner and executed them after Moscow refused to turn over a Russian officer accused of killing a Chechen woman.