 oddly, for all the moratorium talk, capital punishment has not yet emerged as an issue in this year's presidential arena. gov. george w. bush of texas has increasingly had to defend his stewardship of his state's  death row, the nation's busiest. but vice president al gore, a supporter of capital punishment, has not dared to press the politically risky issue. installed in the promenade gallery of the bushnell in hartford through june 4, the exhibition represents an effort by the artists to get past the cities' stereotypes and reveal often overlooked architectural and human attributes. the number to call for more information is (860) 987-6000. on the other side are members of the rye natural light association, who don't want lighting poles as tall as 15 feet rearing up from a quaint part of the city, across the street from the church where george and barbara bush married. they fear the lights will mar the view and lower property values. the trade bill could be mr. clinton's last tough legislative battle as president. his commendable willingness to stand up to labor and most members of his own party on trade belies his reputation as subservient to his party's core constituencies. on the other side of the aisle, gov. george w. bush has shown leadership in repudiating the isolationists in his own party. organized labor's decision to turn this into a make-or-break test of loyalty for its supporters has been shortsighted and destructive. mrs. antonetty, who grew up in fort greene, and mr. antonetty, who grew up in a public housing project in bushwick, moved to bed-stuy 15 years ago, and before buying their new house lived in one next door that they still own. ''we fell in love with brownstones,'' she said. their new house reflects the melding of victorian and african influences, with a new stained-glass image in their front door that is an african symbol for belief in god. abraham lincoln, adlai stevenson, john f. kennedy, ronald reagan, bob dole. what did each have that today's presidential candidates lack in such great abundance? a sense of humor, springing from the gut, not a 3-by-5-inch ghost-written card [''fear and joking on the late-night campaign trail'' by peter marks, may 7]. neither al gore nor george w. bush has the instincts it takes to go joke for joke with a killer comic. indeed, it sometimes seems that both mr. gore and mr. bush have decided that maybe calvin coolidge had the right idea: ''i think the american public wants a solemn ass as a president. and i think i'll go along with them.'' each would profit from the advice of richard m. nixon, who, of all people, said, ''the worst sin in politics is being boring.'' and, when elected, the winner should keep in mind this warning from mr. dole: ''what people often forget is that the last laugh doesn't belong to the victorious candidate -- it belongs to the late-night comics.'' abraham lincoln, adlai stevenson, john f. kennedy, ronald reagan, bob dole. what did each have that today's presidential candidates lack in such great abundance? a sense of humor, springing from the gut, not a 3-by-5-inch ghost-written card [''fear and joking on the late-night campaign trail'' by peter marks, may 7]. neither al gore nor george w. bush has the instincts it takes to go joke for joke with a killer comic. indeed, it sometimes seems that both mr. gore and mr. bush have decided that maybe calvin coolidge had the right idea: ''i think the american public wants a solemn ass as a president. and i think i'll go along with them.'' each would profit from the advice of richard m. nixon, who, of all people, said, ''the worst sin in politics is being boring.'' and, when elected, the winner should keep in mind this warning from mr. dole: ''what people often forget is that the last laugh doesn't belong to the victorious candidate -- it belongs to the late-night comics.'' after suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, american farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to china over the next few years. after suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, american farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to china over the next few years. macarthur, the president and publisher of harper's magazine, is at his best describing the lobbying that occurred after the treaty was signed and went to congress in august 1993. he shows how business lobbyists worked hand in glove with the treaty's congressional supporters. but he has surprisingly little to say about the negotiations themselves, or about the domestic political conflicts that occurred while the treaty was being negotiated. his account of these tends to render shades of gray as black. when the bush administration proposed that congress agree to a fast-track vote (up or down without amendments), richard gephardt, the house majority leader and a democrat, backed bush on the condition that the treaty contain rules on labor standards and environmental protection. macarthur dismisses this position as nave and opportunistic. (gephardt ''was presumably ambitious to be liked by the sort of people, honest or not, who can make you president.'') a year later, during the presidential campaign, bill clinton, under the influence of gephardt and two advisers, derek shearer and richard rothstein, adopted the same position. macarthur treats clinton even more contemptuously than he does gephardt. he says clinton ''had already made up his mind on trade to the point where there was no substantial difference between his position and bush's.'' clinton's stand, he says, was primarily based on fund-raising. that assertion leaves little middle ground between those adamantly opposed to nafta and those enthusiastically in favor. macarthur may be right, but when i covered the negotiations i found otherwise. michael a. white  flatbush, brooklyn others on the right hold more confused views. george w. bush supports a constitutional amendment to ban abortion in most cases, and yet as governor of texas he has personally signed the death warrants of more than 120 people -- about a sixth of all the condemned prisoners executed since capital punishment was revived in the 1970's. in an interview with talk magazine last year, he even made fun of one of the victims of texas' death row, karla fay tucker, mocking her pleas for mercy. and despite growing dna evidence of the innocence of many death-row convicts across the country, bush has shown not even a glimmer of concern that the texas judicial system might be flawed. or take the vociferously anti-abortion representative henry hyde. two years ago, hyde said: ''i look for the common thread in slavery, the holocaust and abortion. to me, the common thread is dehumanizing people.'' and yet hyde has personally championed legislation that significantly curtails the judicial review of death-row appeals. even alan keyes, that peerless defender of unborn life, turns out to be a supporter of criminals' deaths. he said earlier this year, ''i think that there are circumstances under which it is essential . . . that we have and apply the death penalty in order to send a clear moral message to people throughout our society that we will not tolerate that kind of disrespect for life.'' in other words, if you want to support life, enforce death. bill clinton's signal contribution to this debate was to construct a new and powerful centrist position. call it ''double death.'' double-deathers consistently back the right to abort and the right to execute. clinton twice vetoed legislation that would have banned late-term abortion, and famously interrupted his election campaign in 1992 to approve the execution of a mentally incapacitated prisoner in arkansas. for clinton, and other double-deathers, this combo has a powerful political rationale. the formula signals to the feminist left that clinton is one of them (can i have your check now, please?), and it signals to the centrist right that he's not michael dukakis (can i have your vote now, please?). under clinton, execution rates have duly soared, the federal death penalty has been extended to a broadening array of crimes and the legal right to abort a fetus has become democratic party gospel. clinton's heir, al gore, once had moral qualms about abortion. but he's a quick study and is now an absolutist defender of abortion rights and a fervent supporter of capital punishment. the same goes for rudy giuliani, whose commitment to the legality of certain kinds of killing has made him as tenacious a double-deather as hillary clinton. felicia r lee coping column on recent visit by urban bush women troupe dancer carolina garcia to ps 146 in east harlem, under auspices of dance introduction program at 92nd street y; drawing (m) carolina garcia, petite and imposing, stood in front of the auditorium at public school 146 in east harlem. ms. garcia, a dancer in the urban bush women troupe, was full of questions for the wiggling third graders: what is culture? what is a gesture? what is your name? what is your favorite color? carolina garcia, petite and imposing, stood in front of the auditorium at public school 146 in east harlem. ms. garcia, a dancer in the urban bush women troupe, was full of questions for the wiggling third graders: what is culture? what is a gesture? what is your name? what is your favorite color? the silence and wide-eyed looks meant ms. garcia was getting through. the students had questions, too. was she limber? did people recognize her when she walked down the street? and where do they dance, these urban bush women? two performances were recently arranged so the students could see the urban bush women at the y. one was last thursday, the other will be tomorrow. culinary concerts of madison has been catering the connecticut arts gala in the parking lot of the bushnell in hartford for six years, with sit-down dinners for 450 or so guests, but mr. bracken said he enjoyed small events, too. at one time, british tsetse control reportedly included ''fly boys'' -- young men who stood shirtless in the bush slapping flies and were paid a bounty for each killed. because the fly likes dense brush near water, the illness particularly affects women and the babies they carry on their backs as they collect water or wash clothes. if infected, even babies must suffer melarsoprol treatment. in a rousing speech to an a.f.l.-c.i.o. convention in new jersey, vice president gore used the attack word secret seven times. it is now his favorite adjective, having temporarily replaced risky (as in the phrase, pronounced as one word, riskytaxscheme). he was blazing away at governor bush's proposal, not yet detailed, to allow individuals to divert a portion of their social security taxes into the stock market. gore charged that bush believed ''it would be best not to let you, the voters of this country, in on the secret plan before the election. . . . he is suppressing the details of how his plan would work and refusing to divulge what his secret plan really is.'' at a subsequent news conference, he evidently felt that secret was not pejorative enough and added, redundantly, a ''private secret plan.'' in a rousing speech to an a.f.l.-c.i.o. convention in new jersey, vice president gore used the attack word secret seven times. it is now his favorite adjective, having temporarily replaced risky (as in the phrase, pronounced as one word, riskytaxscheme). he was blazing away at governor bush's proposal, not yet detailed, to allow individuals to divert a portion of their social security taxes into the stock market. gore charged that bush believed ''it would be best not to let you, the voters of this country, in on the secret plan before the election. . . . he is suppressing the details of how his plan would work and refusing to divulge what his secret plan really is.'' at a subsequent news conference, he evidently felt that secret was not pejorative enough and added, redundantly, a ''private secret plan.'' even gore, a few weeks before he leveled the tried-and-true phrase at bush, showed he was aware of its old-chestnuttiness. in a hilarious, deadpan, self-mocking speech to the gridiron club in washington, he was widely reported to have said he had a secret plan to win the white house: he would claim credit for all the good stuff that had happened in the past eight years and dissociate himself from the bad stuff. meanwhile, george w. bush has been using an attack word of his own to characterize the gore approach to social security: ''for eight years,'' he wrote in a fund-raising letter, ''clinton/gore has had history's greatest opportunity to reform social security. they chose to demagogue the problem, not repair it.'' i kept this letter, sent to me by its recipient, leila hadley luce of new york, to note the use of the beslashed singular subject clinton/gore, followed properly by the singular verb has, but then followed incorrectly by they. clinton/gore is a team and takes an it. governor bush cannot be faulted for using demagogue as a verb. it was coined in that form by james harrington in his 1656 utopian theory, ''commonwealth of oceana.'' he picked up the noun coined five years earlier by thomas hobbes and wrote of a time ''when that same ranting fellow alcibiades fell a demagoging for the sicilian war.'' in 1890, the cincinnati commercial gazette wrote of president benjamin harrison, ''the president never thought of demagoging the matter.'' will gore now assail bush for harboring a secret plan to attack him for demagoguery? will bush lash back in a debate by demanding he spell it? both sides are now armed. trainers pulled her off longtime mounts. to keep working, she rode 30-1 shots in bush-league tracks against jockeys she once could  beat in her sleep, and lost because she held back. other jockeys called her ''chicken'' and told her to quit. by day, pamela sybrandy works as a nurse in san diego. but in her free time, she is a cyberwarrior for al gore. part of a growing band of grass-roots activists, ms. sybrandy has set up a web page -- with no ties to the democratic party or the gore campaign -- to promote mr. gore's views on family and children's issues. until now, ms. sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local democratic headquarters. but this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote mr. gore in a way that gave her more clout. by day, pamela sybrandy works as a nurse in san diego. but in her free time, she is a cyberwarrior for al gore. part of a growing band of grass-roots activists, ms. sybrandy has set up a web page -- with no ties to the democratic party or the gore campaign -- to promote mr. gore's views on family and children's issues. until now, ms. sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local democratic headquarters. but this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote mr. gore in a way that gave her more clout. as of last week, 3,775 home-grown web sites had the bush name in them and 3,066 had mr. gore's name, compared with virtually none containing candidates' names in the last presidential campaign. not all, of course, support one of the two candidates.  some praise, some mock, some parody and others simply repeat much of what the two candidates have said or post news articles about them from other sources. so far, the bush campaign seems to have suffered the greatest sting from parody sites, particularly over questions about whether he used drugs. the bush campaign, in fact, tried to restrict one scathing web site, www.gwbush.com, arguing that the site should be regulated as a political committee, but the campaign's complaint was dismissed last month by the federal election commission. on the other side of the political spectrum is robin orlowski, a junior at texas woman's university in denton, tex. she runs the pioneergrrrl web site, which contains essays by ms. orlowski supporting democratic and female candidates and attacking the republicans. it also has links to pro-democratic sites and anti-bush ones. and as mr. bush and mr. gore know well, it also provides an opportunity for critics to exploit their foibles. for instance, www.all gore.com, recently featured a parody of mr. gore saying, ''elian can live with me.'' and anti-bush web sites  like www.georgybush.com feature parody songs in spanish and english that can be put on cd's for distribution. the gore campaign has tried to take a low-key view of the sites that make fun of mr. gore. ''we try to keep a good sense of humor about them,'' said todd webster, a campaign spokesman. moreover, the democratic party has taken a page from the parody book and brought forth a number of sites mocking republicans, among them www.millionairesforbush .com, and has picked up some material from a comedy central web site that makes fun of senator john mccain of arizona and linked it to  the party's own site (www. democrats.org). even if much of the material is in jest, however, the creators of these parody web sites say their intent is serious. ''we will play a small role in the campaign because there are many people coming to our site and who have heard what i have to say,'' said zack exley, creator of the gwbush.com site, which he says gets  300,000 to 500,000 visits a month. ''i am trying to make some points that have not been made in the mainstream media.'' leadership of national rifle association declares political war on vice pres al gore at its convention in charlotte, nc; none of speakers mention gov george w bush, but officials say it is likely that group will endorse him for president; combative tone of convention is far cry from the more muted, defensive mood a year earlier; photo of charlton heston, who is expected to be elected to an unprecedented third consecutive term; photo (m) the leadership of the national rifle association declared political war on vice president al gore today, using speech after speech before more than 2,000 cheering members here to accuse mr. gore of trying to ''disarm the country'' and to exhort gun owners to organize against his election this fall. ''the n.r.a. is back,'' said charlton heston, the organization's president, who is expected to be elected to an unprecedented third consecutive term. ''all of this spells very serious trouble for a man named gore.'' the leadership of the national rifle association declared political war on vice president al gore today, using speech after speech before more than 2,000 cheering members here to accuse mr. gore of trying to ''disarm the country'' and to exhort gun owners to organize against his election this fall. ''the n.r.a. is back,'' said charlton heston, the organization's president, who is expected to be elected to an unprecedented third consecutive term. ''all of this spells very serious trouble for a man named gore.'' during nearly two hours of speeches today, the organization's leaders maintained a barrage of attacks against mr. gore -- whom they repeatedly called a liar -- and the million mom march for gun control, held last sunday, which they called a campaign event for the vice president. ''it wasn't a grass-roots rally but a gore campaign rally, scripted and coached by the white house,'' wayne lapierre, the organization's executive vice president, said of the march. ''it wasn't about safety. it was about gore for president. but mr. gore, you're going to find out it's not smart to lie to mom.'' none of the speakers mentioned the name of mr. gore's republican rival, gov. george w. bush of texas. but n.r.a. officials said that it was likely the group would endorse mr. bush after the republican national convention this summer and throw its substantial resources behind him  -- provided he does not try to distance himself too much from the group. mr. bush has been an ally of the n.r.a. in texas, signing bills to allow residents to carry concealed weapons and prohibiting municipalities from filing lawsuits against gun makers. but the governor has distanced himself somewhat from the group, needing to court centrist voters. despite that, n.r.a. officials said today that they still view mr. bush as a friend. ''i haven't seen anything george w. bush has said about this organization or issue that i disagree with,'' james j. baker, the n.r.a.'s chief lobbyist in washington, said in an interview. ''he was, and is, a great governor from the standpoint of knowing where to put the emphasis: on prosecuting the criminal use of guns.'' even as they avoided invoking mr. bush's name, today's speakers repeatedly inched closer to urging n.r.a. members to vote for him, if only to defeat mr. gore. mr. robinson, the chairman of the iowa republican party, was captured on videotape in february telling an n.r.a. gathering that if mr. bush was elected, the group would have ''a president where we work out of their office. unbelievably friendly relations.'' mr. bush has denied that the n.r.a. would have undue influence, but gun-control advocates and mr. gore seized on the remark to accuse the texas governor of being beholden to the powerful group. ''george w. bush and the n.r.a. are working hip holster to hip holster to promote an irresponsible platform,'' chris lehane, mr. gore's spokesman, said in response to today's remarks. beyond today's speeches attacking mr. gore, there is ample evidence that the n.r.a. has been strengthening its ties to the republican party. campaign finance records show that the group has contributed more than $1 million to the republican national committee and republican congressional candidates this year, but only $111,000 to democrats. ''vice president al gore is the type of politician where nothing is sacred, that will say and do anything to preserve their own political future, even if that means using fear and deceptive means,'' mr. watts was to say, according to an advance text of his speech. ''his party used to say, 'there's nothing to fear but fear itself.' now the vice president has nothing to offer but fear itself.'' for all the recriminations between mr. gore and the n.r.a., the fight in many ways benefits both sides by energizing supporters. mr. baker acknowledged today that attacking mr. gore and president clinton has helped the group's membership drives. ''when people feel threatened, they tend to join and contribute,'' he said. he added that if mr. bush is elected and the republicans retain control of congress, ''we probably would lose members.'' even as they claimed responsibility for repeatedly knocking down gun-control legislation in washington, n.r.a. officials told their members that the clinton-gore administration had spent the last seven years assaulting their right to bear arms. and the officials warned, often with an urgency that even some n.r.a. members found hyperbolic, that mr. gore would take immediate steps toward confiscating their weapons once elected. ''for the next six months, al gore is going to smear you as the enemy,'' mr. baker told n.r.a. members. ''he will slander you as gun-toting, knuckle-dragging, bloodthirsty maniacs who stand in the way of a safer america. will you remain silent?'' ''as we set out this year to defeat the divisive forces that would take freedom away,'' he said, ''i want to say those words again for everyone within the sound of my voice to hear and to heed, and especially for you, mr. gore: 'from my cold, dead hands!' '' and, as mr. simon points out, there was fred coe, the producer -- legendary within the television industry -- who nurtured writing talents like paddy chayefsky, horton foote and gore vidal. the teleplays they created were largely, he says, about ''contemporary life in the 50's.''  ''marty,'' for instance, the 1953 television play written by chayefsky, was not just about an unmarried young butcher with a possessive mother and no ideas for what to do on saturday night, but about the transition from ''tradition to modern values,'' from prewar to postwar thinking. ''fail safe'' -- which starred richard dreyfuss, brian dennehy, harvey keitel and noah wyle -- was based on a 1964 movie and dealt with the cold war anxieties of the early 60's. gov. george w. bush of texas, who is expected to be the republican nominee for president, has said he strongly believes that no innocent person has been executed in his state, which leads the nation in executions. john harms center for the arts ''arborealis,'' photography by cali gorevic. through wednesday. hours: monday through wednesday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 30 north van brunt street, englewood. (201) 567-3600. john harms center for the arts ''arborealis,'' photography by cali gorevic. through wednesday. hours: monday through wednesday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 30 north van brunt street, englewood. (201) 567-3600. n.r.a. to battle gore  the national rifle association has declared political war on vice president al gore, using speeches at its convention in charlotte, n.c., to accuse mr. gore of trying to ''disarm the country'' and to urge gun owners to work against his election. jeremiah's weekends are not usually so serene. he lives in a three-bedroom apartment in the breukelen houses with seven other people: his mother, a sales associate at the toys ''r'' us on flatbush avenue; her fiance, neville murphy; two sisters, lauryn, 11, and cydney, 14; two brothers, joshua, 2, and matthew, 7; and a nephew, elijah, 4. last year, he spent the summer at a day camp in brooklyn. barbara bush's statement in december 1999 that republican party should remove anti-abortion plank from party platform will be used in radio ad being prepared by republicans for choice; ad urges gov george w bush to 'listen to your mama'; photo (s) in december, barbara bush, the former first lady and mother of gov. george w. bush, declared in an interview with abc news that the republican party should not take a stand on abortion in its national platform. ''i believe in states' rights,'' she said, ''and i don't think it should be in the national platform. there's nothing a president can do about it anyway, in all honesty.'' in december, barbara bush, the former first lady and mother of gov. george w. bush, declared in an interview with abc news that the republican party should not take a stand on abortion in its national platform. ''i believe in states' rights,'' she said, ''and i don't think it should be in the national platform. there's nothing a president can do about it anyway, in all honesty.'' republicans for choice, an organization that has threatened noisy, divisive demonstrations at the convention if the plank is not removed or modified, is preparing to run 30-second radio advertisements that call on mr. bush to ''listen to your mama'' rather than to the hard-right conservatives who tend to dominate the party's platform deliberations. article in the series george w bush's journey says that many of the roots of bush's political philosophy seem go back to his childhood in midland, tex, a conservative town that mirrors his optimism, his faith in business and his doubts about an activist government; photos (l) the fourth-grade classroom erupted in titters as george w. bush, one of the class clowns, faced his friends. he had quietly used an ink pen to draw a beard and long sideburns on his cheeks. the fourth-grade classroom erupted in titters as george w. bush, one of the class clowns, faced his friends. he had quietly used an ink pen to draw a beard and long sideburns on his cheeks. many of the roots of mr. bush's political philosophy as a presidential candidate -- including his belief in tough love for juvenile offenders -- seem to go back to his childhood. midland, a conservative, up-from-the-bootstraps town that has grown from 25,000 when he was a little boy to almost 100,000 today, mirrors mr. bush's optimism, his faith in business and his doubts about an activist  government. while playing little league baseball, running for class president, or even sobbing in the principal's office, george w. bush absorbed west texas values that many old friends say are central to understanding who he is today. mr. bush himself, in a long interview about his roots, made a similar point. ''i don't know what percentage of me is midland,'' he said, ''but i would say people, if they want to understand me, need to understand midland and the attitude of midland.'' it is in the soil of midland that mr. bush has said he would like to be buried when he dies, and it was to midland that he returned in the 1970's to marry and start a family. it gave him an anchor in real america. mr. bush has often said that ''the biggest difference between me and my father is that he went to greenwich country day and i went to san jacinto junior high.'' that may be an exaggeration of the younger mr. bush's populist credentials, because he is also a product of andover, yale and harvard. but there is still something to it. the father, chauffeured to and from private school in connecticut in a black sedan,  suffered politically because of the perception that he was a blue blood who could not relate to ordinary people. the younger mr. bush also has been tainted by the idea that he was born into privilege with a visa to effortless wealth and prominence. yet george w. bush actually had a rather ordinary childhood, and his years biking around small-town streets in jeans and a white t-shirt left him with a common touch that is among his greatest assets as a politician. ''he understands bubba because there is more bubba in him,'' karl rove, the longtime political adviser to the bushes, told a reporter in 1992, when mr. bush's friends were still carefree enough to say colorful things about him. ''he is clearly the wild son -- even today. part of it is rooted in midland, where he grew up in an ordinary neighborhood, where houses are close together and risk was a way of life.'' the midland childhood is a striking contrast to that of another boy growing up at the same time, al gore, who instead of being paddled in mr. bizilo's office was attending the elite st. albans school in washington, swimming in the senate pool and listening on an extension as his father the senator spoke on the telephone to president john f. kennedy. midland, impatient with ideas and introspection, was a world of clear rights and wrongs, long on absolutes and devoid of ethical gray shades. it may be the source of some of mr. bush's greatest political strengths, the unpretentiousness and mellow bonhomie that warm up voters, and also of his weaknesses, including an image of an intellectual lightweight that is underscored whenever he mixes up the likes of slovenia and slovakia. the oil made midland a boomtown, attracting ambitious businessmen like the elder mr. bush and many other out-of-staters as well. these people made for a conservative town but not a redneck one; midland had a large proportion of geologists, engineers, lawyers and accountants, and ivy league college graduates were everywhere. mr. bush recalls it in norman rockwell pastels, and so do many other residents. children bicycled everywhere on their own, crime was almost nonexistent and if anyone suspicious -- say, someone with a beard --  showed up in town, then-sheriff ed darnell (known as big ed) would stop him, escort him to the edge of town, and tell him to ''get out.'' yet what no one volunteers is that it was also rigidly segregated in those days, like most places in the south. black children went to their own school rather than to sam houston elementary with george bush. the bus station and train station had separate waiting rooms for blacks and whites, and there were separate, dilapidated drinking fountains marked ''colored'' at the stations and at the courthouse. the bushes' first encounter with west texas racism came when they casually invited a black man, working for the national association for the advancement of colored people, to come by their temporary home in neighboring odessa. the man had the tact to stay away, but neighbors heard about this and warned the elder george bush to stop these invitations unless he wanted to be tarred and feathered. michael proctor, who lived across the street and was playing with george at the time, remembers watching as mrs. bush grabbed her son by the ear and dragged him into the bathroom. she washed his mouth out with soap as he spluttered indignantly. alongside the racism directed at blacks, there was a measured respect for the mexicans who came over the border to work in the oil fields. as a boomtown, midland needed laborers and welcomed mexican immigrants, who were regarded as hard-working and thrifty. some old friends find an echo of that attitude in mr. bush's efforts to push the republican party to reach out to immigrants. ''we saw these people cross the border and just wanting a good job,'' recalls randall roden, a neighbor boy and best friend. mr. roden recalls going out with george and his father to an oil well and spending the night sleeping in the back of the bushes' station wagon as the crew -- mexicans among them -- struggled to get the well going. george w. bush, though born in 1946 in new haven, conn., while his father was still an over-achieving student at yale, moved to west texas when he was not quite 2 and grew up in this nurturing environment. these days, as the son of a president and scion of a wealthy family, he is often perceived as a child of privilege, but neighbors in those days insist that in the 1950's that was not the case. the bush family in the northeast had money, but the elder george left all that behind to make his own fortune in west texas. equipped with connections but initially without seed money, george and barbara bush and little george, their firstborn, settled in a tiny apartment in the hard-driving oil town of odessa, where they shared a bathroom with a mother-daughter team of prostitutes living next door. local people say that you raise hell in odessa but raise a family in nearby midland, a much more respectable place. so, after a one-year interlude in california, the bushes moved to midland, living in a bright blue 847-square-foot bungalow on a newly built street in which every home was identical -- but painted bright colors to make them seem different. it was called easter egg row, because the houses looked like colored eggs. the family prospered in the oil business and moved into a series of nicer houses in midland, culminating in one with a swimming pool. but this was not as much of a draw as it might have been. just down the street lived peggy porter, one of the cutest girls in school, and because she had a pool as well, it was in much greater demand than the bush family's. occasionally george w.'s grandfather, senator prescott s. bush of connecticut, would visit and cause a mild stir of interest in the neighborhood. but for the most part, the bush family was regarded as fairly typical of the out-of-staters. these days, governor bush is often seen as a princeling, the son of a president, the scion of a famous family, and al gore as more of his own man. but in the 1950's and early 1960's, it was the other way around. back then, the name george bush belonged only to an obscure texas businessman. george w.'s closest connection to the white house was that he was a descendant on his mother's side of franklin pierce, america's 14th president. in contrast, in those days ''albert gore'' was virtually a household name, belonging to a prominent senator (the present candidate's father and namesake) who was sometimes mentioned as presidential or vice-presidential timber. the senator lost his seat in 1970 and faded into obscurity. yet young george was not some country hick, and he also learned to fit into the world of his connecticut grandparents. the family regularly spent part of the summer at the family retreat in kennebunkport, me., and in 1954 the father took george and his best friend, randall roden, to washington to see the white house, the united states capitol and a baseball game with the washington senators (whose later incarnation would move to texas and become the rangers, owned in part by george w. bush). when they are tracked down, the boys and girls who once played dodgeball at sam houston elementary school, while now scattered around the country, offer recollections that are very similar: midland was an idyllic place in which to grow up, and george w. bush was a very typical child. in contrast to other recent presidential candidates, mr. bush in childhood is remarkable primarily for his ordinariness. ''he wasn't any different from anybody else,'' recalled robert a. mccleskey, an old playmate. ''you read about clinton and gore and how at that age they were planning to be president. not bush.'' as a boy, mr. bush's ambition was to be another mickey mantle. no one has ever accused mr. bush of being an intellectual, and the indifference to books started early. childhood friends recall mr. bush reading only two sets of books for pleasure -- the hardy boys and a series of mystery books about baseball. as one asks about his reading habits, there are a few snickers. george and barbara bush led a drive to build a school library (the school did not previously have one), but books were not a major part of a boy's childhood in midland. erstwhile acquaintances, while deeply admiring of the bushes' goodness and decency, have trouble recalling early signs of greatness in the son. even if he did not distinguish himself as a student, former classmates describe him as smart and blessed with an excellent memory. he had a passion for baseball statistics, a first-rate collection of baseball cards and a reputation as such a shrewd trader that boys were careful not to agree to a trade with george bush without thinking it over very carefully. mr. bush's lifelong adoration of baseball began when he and other neighborhood boys would go early to school to play ball. mr. bizilo, the principal, would take off his jacket, loosen his tie and hit balls for the boys to field. in particular, it was in midland that mr. bush first learned to fit in, even if his parents were yankees and his grandfather a senator. that ability to adapt and bridge groups has never left him. moreover, midland values were remarkably unshaken by the 1960's. some midland alumni say they let their hair grow a bit longer, but -- like george w. bush -- they mostly stood with the establishment instead of rejecting it. very few seem to have protested significantly against the vietnam war, seriously used drugs, thought of police as ''pigs,'' denounced their parents as oppressors or picked up a copy of das kapital. ''it's a town of embedded values,'' mr. bush recalled, adding that it had ''a heavy dose of individualism and fairly healthy disrespect for government.'' asked if his own skepticism about the role for government is a product of midland attitudes, mr. bush paused and finally nodded, saying: ''i think there's a parallel there, i do.'' midland was steeped in optimism, and for many people growing up here in the 1950's, the moral of childhood was that the system worked, that anyone who struggled enough in that baking desert had a good chance of finding oil and striking it rich. the trajectory of the bush family itself, from the apartment with the shared bathroom to the sprawling house and pool, underscored the point. ''the lesson lasted with george w. for years,'' said bill minutaglio, a texan who has written a biography of mr. bush. ''i think he truly believes that people can win the lottery if they work hard, that if they put their nose to the grindstone it'll all work out without government help or intrusion.'' when mr. bush talks about ''compassionate conservatism'' or ''faith-based initiatives,'' he evokes what old classmates remember as the spirit of midland of the 1950's. asked if that is what he has in mind, mr. bush interrupts half-way through the question. ''yeah, absolutely,'' he said. those who know midland are convinced that mr. bush is sincere when he preaches compassion and calls for a ''responsibility era.'' but some also admit that it is fair to question the relevance of lessons from a town where raw capitalism made so many people rich and where community spirit wove such a strong safety net. ''we were terrible to animals,'' recalled mr. throckmorton, laughing. a dip behind the bush home turned into a small lake after a good rain, and thousands of frogs would come out. but his eyes were playing tricks on him. his parents had come to break the news to him that robin had just died of leukemia. the loss staggered the bush family, and some friends say that george's closeness to his mother dates partly from his efforts to comfort her at that time. mr. bush's political debut appears to have come in the seventh grade, although both he and his wife, laura, (who was in the same seventh grade but barely knew him) say they have no recollection of it. classmates recall that he ran for seventh-grade class president against jack hanks. still, former classmates say that if they had been told that one of their number would become a presidential candidate, they would not have thought of george bush. instead, they say, the assumption would have been that it would be bill wood. mr. wood, as bright and ambitious as he was athletic, beat out george bush on the football field and was the first-string quarterback on the seventh-grade team (mr. bush was the second-string quarterback). mr. wood eventually became the junior high school and high school student council president and even headed the statewide association of student councils. if any young man in midland seemed destined for the white house, classmates remember, it was he. articles in this series will examine the lives of the presidential candidates ast the campaign progresses. the nest article will explore al gore's dual boyhood, in washington and in carthage, tenn. pigeon keeping has been in decline since the end of world war ii, when high-rises  began to replace tenements and eliminate the essential components of the game: flat rooftops and a concentration of pigeon keepers. but one would not know that from the heavy weekday traffic at the store. mr. alicea estimated that about 20 coops were concentrated on rooftops over flushing avenue's poorly covered trolley tracks and cobblestones in nearby bushwick, brooklyn. everybody loves raymond. this series has made a tradition of doing flashback season finales. last year it was the day ray and debra met. this year the subject is robert, ray's insecure policeman brother, and why he and his ex-wife, joanne, broke up (something to do with his peculiar habits, like touching food to his chin before eating it). in the present, robert has been out of commission since he was gored by a bull at a rodeo in queens. now he's going back to work, but at the family dinner to celebrate his return, he sees joanne at the restaurant and begins to think about her. at the end she leaves her business card. will he call? or will he stay with his current sweet-heart of a girlfriend, amy? robert cowen letter on may 19 article on bush and gore proposals for overhauling social security urges social security surplus be lent to federal and state governments at market rates/ re ''benefits and drawbacks to bush and gore proposals for overhauling social security'' (news article, may 19): al gore's proposal to use the current social security trust fund surplus to pay down the federal debt and then, in the future, transfer the interest savings to social security is criticized as being ''little more than a paper-shuffling exercise and would still leave taxpayers on the hook to pay for the shortfall in funds.'' re ''benefits and drawbacks to bush and gore proposals for overhauling social security'' (news article, may 19): al gore's proposal to use the current social security trust fund surplus to pay down the federal debt and then, in the future, transfer the interest savings to social security is criticized as being ''little more than a paper-shuffling exercise and would still leave taxpayers on the hook to pay for the shortfall in funds.'' i've been watching birds for six years. it all began at a brunch in manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in central park. i didn't know what precisely warblers were, but i knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived i would go out to find them. the next day, i signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the new york city chapter of the audubon society. there were two classes and two field trips -- one to the jamaica bay wildlife refuge and one to central park. to get to jamaica bay, i took the a train to broad channel in queens, where i saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from kennedy airport. on the trip to central park, not two blocks from where i live, i saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. i've been watching birds for six years. it all began at a brunch in manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in central park. i didn't know what precisely warblers were, but i knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived i would go out to find them. the next day, i signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the new york city chapter of the audubon society. there were two classes and two field trips -- one to the jamaica bay wildlife refuge and one to central park. to get to jamaica bay, i took the a train to broad channel in queens, where i saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from kennedy airport. on the trip to central park, not two blocks from where i live, i saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. the pastel beauty of the rose garden consists of 15,000 bushes of 800 to 900 varieties. donna fuss, the rosarian, invites anyone to count them, as she has often in her job tending the garden for the friends of elizabeth park. the friends formed in 1977 by some members of the federated garden clubs of connecticut at a time when the city, running out of money, was about to raze some of the gardens. resources are not lavish even with the friends to help. mrs. fuss said she quickly uses her yearly rose bush replacement budget of $8,000, which comes from donations. ''it's like a maze out there and you have to have a certain kind of machine that can make the turns without taking out the bushes or the flowers,'' mr. prill said. workers also prune bushes and trees. a real struggle for them in recent years is to try to get rid of non-native plants, like autumn olive and oriental bittersweet, that are choking trees and native plants. the problem is worse in the last few years, ms. quirk said, possibly because the maintenance crews were smaller for several years  and had less time to cut back the weeds. giant outdoor chess garden; tomorrow through june 2, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily; metrotech commons, myrtle avenue between jay street and flatbush avenue extension; free; (718) 488-8200. to this justice, and to interest groups on the left and the right, the 2000 presidential campaign is not so much about whether al gore or george w. bush makes it to the white house. it's about whom mr. gore or mr. bush would put on the supreme court, where vacancies are  likely, if not in the next four years, then certainly in the next president's potential second term. three of the nine justices are age 70 or older. in just about every speech, mr. gore warns that religious conservatives like pat robertson and jerry falwell would ratify prospects for the bench in a bush administration. his advisers were emboldened last week when the court, in a 5-to-4 ruling, overturned parts of the violence against women act, in a rebuke to congress's efforts to use interstate commerce rules to preempt state powers. that ruling, they said, would galvanize women who feel they have been left more vulnerable to gender-motivated violence. ''if bush or gore says, 'vote for me because in 2015 medicare or social security will be in better shape,' i don't think that's going to motivate a lot of voters because of the lack of immediacy,'' said stuart m. benjamin, a professor at the university of san diego school of law who was a clerk for justice david souter. ''that, in effect, is what voters are being asked to do with the supreme court.'' recognizing that the court carries little political weight with most voters -- and perhaps that his views could put off the moderates he will need in november -- mr. bush never raises the subject. when asked, he reassures conservatives by suggesting that his nominees would be ''strict constructionists,'' uncomfortable with roe v. wade, though he has insisted he would not administer a litmus test to make sure his running mate shares his anti-abortion position. unlike mr. bush, mr. gore has not been timid about saying he would pick justices who share his pro-choice views. the hope among democrats is that they might turn the court into an issue that goes beyond their party base, and draws away moderates who are intrigued by mr. bush. there is a possibility for the court to be more at the fore in this campaign because in the next several weeks it is expected to hand down decisions on a series of controversial issues: federalism, partial birth abortion, gays in the boy scouts and a challenge to the miranda warning, which requires police to advise suspects of their rights before beginning an interrogation. ronald a. klain, a former chief of staff to mr. gore and the member of the white house counsel's office who ran the selection process of justice ruth bader ginsburg, refused to concede that voters will be indifferent to court rulings like the one last week that invalidated a central provision of the violence against women act. caleb crain reviews book an american album: one hundred and fifty years of harper's magazine, edited by lewis h lapham and ellen rosenbush; drawing (m) and ellen rosenbush. and ellen rosenbush. reader, i have eaten them. there were a few obstacles to the mastication. first, the trouble of eating in loaves what is normally eaten in slices. second, an absence of what lewis carroll calls ''ticketing.'' lewis h. lapham and ellen rosenbush, the editors of ''an american album,'' have supplied no headnotes to guide the modern reader. for example, stephen a. douglas's 1859 defense of a territory's right to choose slavery is presented for rumination, but whether it should be digested by the stomach for sophistry or the stomach for full historical disclosure, lapham and rosenbush do not advise. in 1927 sarah comstock wrote what may have been the first modern magazine profile (the subject: aimee semple mcpherson; the method: start with the glamour, then carefully chip all the artifice off the gestalt). but there is no hint as to who comstock herself was, and whether she wrote any more. toward the end of the millennium, odd, century-straddling parallels occur to the anthology reader. pico iyer's week in the los angeles airport recalls george ward nichols's nine days on a mississippi steamboat -- the feel of travel without having to move, the exotic scene in a domestic locale. ryszard kapuscinski experiences a 1969 war in honduras much the way frederic remington experienced 1898 in cuba: as a young reporter roughing it, shaken out of a quaint-seeming adventure by gore. and the righteous anger of lewis lapham in 1994, when newspapers declined to speak ill of a dead nixon, weirdly echoes george william curtis's fury in 1878, when newspapers treated the death of tammany hall's boss tweed ''as if he had been a hero or statesman.'' in the name of the public interest, the harper's editor tsk-tsks the popular reaction. the target seems safe -- not only dead but a known villain -- and the editorial stance a bit unfair: is the editor defending the people from emotional manipulation, or chiding them as softhearted dunces? exactly. ted kondoleon letter on may 14 article on how bush candidacy puts focus on executions notes many americans favor death penalty, particularly for murder re ''bush candidacy puts focus on executions'' (front page, may 14): many american citizens favor the death penalty and rightly so, particularly where the crime involved cold-blooded murder done with malice aforethought. re ''bush candidacy puts focus on executions'' (front page, may 14): many american citizens favor the death penalty and rightly so, particularly where the crime involved cold-blooded murder done with malice aforethought. ''eight years from now, the massive baby-boomer generation will begin drawing benefits,'' declared gov. george w. bush. ''eight years from now, the massive baby-boomer generation will begin drawing benefits,'' declared gov. george w. bush. vice president al gore countered, ''the numbers just don't add up, and under the bush plan a serious reduction of our national debt is simply impossible.'' the issue under discussion by the presumptive republican and democratic nominees for president was a vital one, if not exactly the sort that stops voters' hearts: how to protect the social security system, which both candidates say is slowly going broke. speaking in southern california, mr. bush announced a plan for reforming the federal retirement-benefits system that would allow workers to invest some of their payroll taxes in private accounts. ''there is a fundamental difference between my opponent and me,'' mr. bush said. ''he trusts the government to manage our retirement. i trust individual americans.'' mr. gore argued that mr. bush's plan misplaces its trust by exposing workers' retirement money to the mercy of the markets and making it impossible for the government to pay down the national debt. ''tens of millions of investors who have not gone through the fordham business school,'' mr. gore said, ''would be placed in a situation where a lot of financial shenanigans could take place.'' the vice president also revealed a protective streak with his own investments. after mr. bush told reporters that mr. gore had a lot of money in stocks, mr. gore replied that he had not invested in the markets in 25 years for fear of an appearance of a conflict. the back-and-forth over money matters came as a new york times/cbs news poll showed that most voters are thinking less about candidates' detailed fiscal calculations than about how nice they seem. mr. bush was favored over mr. gore in the new poll by 47 percent to 39 percent, and although more respondents liked mr. gore's stands on the issues, they liked mr. bush even more as a person. After suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, American farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to China over the next few years. After suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, American farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to China over the next few years. MICHAEL A. WHITE  Flatbush, Brooklyn At one time, British tsetse control reportedly included ''fly boys'' -- young men who stood shirtless in the bush slapping flies and were paid a bounty for each killed. Because the fly likes dense brush near water, the illness particularly affects women and the babies they carry on their backs as they collect water or wash clothes. If infected, even babies must suffer melarsoprol treatment. Trainers pulled her off longtime mounts. To keep working, she rode 30-1 shots in bush-league tracks against jockeys she once could  beat in her sleep, and lost because she held back. Other jockeys called her ''chicken'' and told her to quit. Until now, Ms. Sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local Democratic headquarters. But this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote Mr. Gore in a way that gave her more clout. Until now, Ms. Sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local Democratic headquarters. But this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote Mr. Gore in a way that gave her more clout. So far, the Bush campaign seems to have suffered the greatest sting from parody sites, particularly over questions about whether he used drugs. The Bush campaign, in fact, tried to restrict one scathing Web site, www.gwbush.com, arguing that the site should be regulated as a political committee, but the campaign's complaint was dismissed last month by the Federal Election Commission. And as Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore know well, it also provides an opportunity for critics to exploit their foibles. For instance, www.all gore.com, recently featured a parody of Mr. Gore saying, ''Elian can live with me.'' And anti-Bush Web sites  like www.georgybush.com feature parody songs in Spanish and English that can be put on CD's for distribution. Even if much of the material is in jest, however, the creators of these parody Web sites say their intent is serious. ''We will play a small role in the campaign because there are many people coming to our site and who have heard what I have to say,'' said Zack Exley, creator of the gwbush.com site, which he says gets  300,000 to 500,000 visits a month. ''I am trying to make some points that have not been made in the mainstream media.'' Jeremiah's weekends are not usually so serene. He lives in a three-bedroom apartment in the Breukelen Houses with seven other people: his mother, a sales associate at the Toys ''R'' Us on Flatbush Avenue; her fiance, Neville Murphy; two sisters, Lauryn, 11, and Cydney, 14; two brothers, Joshua, 2, and Matthew, 7; and a nephew, Elijah, 4. Last year, he spent the summer at a day camp in Brooklyn. EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND. This series has made a tradition of doing flashback season finales. Last year it was the day Ray and Debra met. This year the subject is Robert, Ray's insecure policeman brother, and why he and his ex-wife, Joanne, broke up (something to do with his peculiar habits, like touching food to his chin before eating it). In the present, Robert has been out of commission since he was gored by a bull at a rodeo in Queens. Now he's going back to work, but at the family dinner to celebrate his return, he sees Joanne at the restaurant and begins to think about her. At the end she leaves her business card. Will he call? Or will he stay with his current sweet-heart of a girlfriend, Amy? I've been watching birds for six years. It all began at a brunch in Manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in Central Park. I didn't know what precisely warblers were, but I knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived I would go out to find them. The next day, I signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the New York City chapter of the Audubon Society. There were two classes and two field trips -- one to the Jamaica Bay wildlife refuge and one to Central Park. To get to Jamaica Bay, I took the A train to Broad Channel in Queens, where I saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the Manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from Kennedy Airport. On the trip to Central Park, not two blocks from where I live, I saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the Ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. I've been watching birds for six years. It all began at a brunch in Manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in Central Park. I didn't know what precisely warblers were, but I knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived I would go out to find them. The next day, I signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the New York City chapter of the Audubon Society. There were two classes and two field trips -- one to the Jamaica Bay wildlife refuge and one to Central Park. To get to Jamaica Bay, I took the A train to Broad Channel in Queens, where I saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the Manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from Kennedy Airport. On the trip to Central Park, not two blocks from where I live, I saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the Ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. The pastel beauty of the rose garden consists of 15,000 bushes of 800 to 900 varieties. Donna Fuss, the rosarian, invites anyone to count them, as she has often in her job tending the garden for the Friends of Elizabeth Park. The Friends formed in 1977 by some members of the Federated Garden Clubs of Connecticut at a time when the city, running out of money, was about to raze some of the gardens. Resources are not lavish even with the Friends to help. Mrs. Fuss said she quickly uses her yearly rose bush replacement budget of $8,000, which comes from donations. ''It's like a maze out there and you have to have a certain kind of machine that can make the turns without taking out the bushes or the flowers,'' Mr. Prill said. Workers also prune bushes and trees. A real struggle for them in recent years is to try to get rid of non-native plants, like autumn olive and Oriental bittersweet, that are choking trees and native plants. The problem is worse in the last few years, Ms. Quirk said, possibly because the maintenance crews were smaller for several years  and had less time to cut back the weeds. Giant Outdoor Chess Garden; tomorrow through June 2, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily; Metrotech Commons, Myrtle Avenue between Jay Street and Flatbush Avenue Extension; free; (718) 488-8200. Caleb Crain reviews book An American Album: One Hundred and Fifty Years of Harper's Magazine, edited by Lewis H Lapham and Ellen Rosenbush; drawing (M) and Ellen Rosenbush. and Ellen Rosenbush. Reader, I have eaten them. There were a few obstacles to the mastication. First, the trouble of eating in loaves what is normally eaten in slices. Second, an absence of what Lewis Carroll calls ''ticketing.'' Lewis H. Lapham and Ellen Rosenbush, the editors of ''An American Album,'' have supplied no headnotes to guide the modern reader. For example, Stephen A. Douglas's 1859 defense of a territory's right to choose slavery is presented for rumination, but whether it should be digested by the stomach for sophistry or the stomach for full historical disclosure, Lapham and Rosenbush do not advise. In 1927 Sarah Comstock wrote what may have been the first modern magazine profile (the subject: Aimee Semple McPherson; the method: start with the glamour, then carefully chip all the artifice off the gestalt). But there is no hint as to who Comstock herself was, and whether she wrote any more. TOWARD the end of the millennium, odd, century-straddling parallels occur to the anthology reader. Pico Iyer's week in the Los Angeles airport recalls George Ward Nichols's nine days on a Mississippi steamboat -- the feel of travel without having to move, the exotic scene in a domestic locale. Ryszard Kapuscinski experiences a 1969 war in Honduras much the way Frederic Remington experienced 1898 in Cuba: as a young reporter roughing it, shaken out of a quaint-seeming adventure by gore. And the righteous anger of Lewis Lapham in 1994, when newspapers declined to speak ill of a dead Nixon, weirdly echoes George William Curtis's fury in 1878, when newspapers treated the death of Tammany Hall's Boss Tweed ''as if he had been a hero or statesman.'' In the name of the public interest, the Harper's editor tsk-tsks the popular reaction. The target seems safe -- not only dead but a known villain -- and the editorial stance a bit unfair: Is the editor defending the people from emotional manipulation, or chiding them as softhearted dunces? Exactly. After suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, American farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to China over the next few years. After suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, American farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to China over the next few years. MICHAEL A. WHITE  Flatbush, Brooklyn At one time, British tsetse control reportedly included ''fly boys'' -- young men who stood shirtless in the bush slapping flies and were paid a bounty for each killed. Because the fly likes dense brush near water, the illness particularly affects women and the babies they carry on their backs as they collect water or wash clothes. If infected, even babies must suffer melarsoprol treatment. Trainers pulled her off longtime mounts. To keep working, she rode 30-1 shots in bush-league tracks against jockeys she once could  beat in her sleep, and lost because she held back. Other jockeys called her ''chicken'' and told her to quit. Until now, Ms. Sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local Democratic headquarters. But this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote Mr. Gore in a way that gave her more clout. Until now, Ms. Sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local Democratic headquarters. But this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote Mr. Gore in a way that gave her more clout. So far, the Bush campaign seems to have suffered the greatest sting from parody sites, particularly over questions about whether he used drugs. The Bush campaign, in fact, tried to restrict one scathing Web site, www.gwbush.com, arguing that the site should be regulated as a political committee, but the campaign's complaint was dismissed last month by the Federal Election Commission. And as Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore know well, it also provides an opportunity for critics to exploit their foibles. For instance, www.all gore.com, recently featured a parody of Mr. Gore saying, ''Elian can live with me.'' And anti-Bush Web sites  like www.georgybush.com feature parody songs in Spanish and English that can be put on CD's for distribution. Even if much of the material is in jest, however, the creators of these parody Web sites say their intent is serious. ''We will play a small role in the campaign because there are many people coming to our site and who have heard what I have to say,'' said Zack Exley, creator of the gwbush.com site, which he says gets  300,000 to 500,000 visits a month. ''I am trying to make some points that have not been made in the mainstream media.'' Jeremiah's weekends are not usually so serene. He lives in a three-bedroom apartment in the Breukelen Houses with seven other people: his mother, a sales associate at the Toys ''R'' Us on Flatbush Avenue; her fiance, Neville Murphy; two sisters, Lauryn, 11, and Cydney, 14; two brothers, Joshua, 2, and Matthew, 7; and a nephew, Elijah, 4. Last year, he spent the summer at a day camp in Brooklyn. EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND. This series has made a tradition of doing flashback season finales. Last year it was the day Ray and Debra met. This year the subject is Robert, Ray's insecure policeman brother, and why he and his ex-wife, Joanne, broke up (something to do with his peculiar habits, like touching food to his chin before eating it). In the present, Robert has been out of commission since he was gored by a bull at a rodeo in Queens. Now he's going back to work, but at the family dinner to celebrate his return, he sees Joanne at the restaurant and begins to think about her. At the end she leaves her business card. Will he call? Or will he stay with his current sweet-heart of a girlfriend, Amy? I've been watching birds for six years. It all began at a brunch in Manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in Central Park. I didn't know what precisely warblers were, but I knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived I would go out to find them. The next day, I signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the New York City chapter of the Audubon Society. There were two classes and two field trips -- one to the Jamaica Bay wildlife refuge and one to Central Park. To get to Jamaica Bay, I took the A train to Broad Channel in Queens, where I saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the Manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from Kennedy Airport. On the trip to Central Park, not two blocks from where I live, I saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the Ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. I've been watching birds for six years. It all began at a brunch in Manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in Central Park. I didn't know what precisely warblers were, but I knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived I would go out to find them. The next day, I signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the New York City chapter of the Audubon Society. There were two classes and two field trips -- one to the Jamaica Bay wildlife refuge and one to Central Park. To get to Jamaica Bay, I took the A train to Broad Channel in Queens, where I saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the Manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from Kennedy Airport. On the trip to Central Park, not two blocks from where I live, I saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the Ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. The pastel beauty of the rose garden consists of 15,000 bushes of 800 to 900 varieties. Donna Fuss, the rosarian, invites anyone to count them, as she has often in her job tending the garden for the Friends of Elizabeth Park. The Friends formed in 1977 by some members of the Federated Garden Clubs of Connecticut at a time when the city, running out of money, was about to raze some of the gardens. Resources are not lavish even with the Friends to help. Mrs. Fuss said she quickly uses her yearly rose bush replacement budget of $8,000, which comes from donations. ''It's like a maze out there and you have to have a certain kind of machine that can make the turns without taking out the bushes or the flowers,'' Mr. Prill said. Workers also prune bushes and trees. A real struggle for them in recent years is to try to get rid of non-native plants, like autumn olive and Oriental bittersweet, that are choking trees and native plants. The problem is worse in the last few years, Ms. Quirk said, possibly because the maintenance crews were smaller for several years  and had less time to cut back the weeds. Giant Outdoor Chess Garden; tomorrow through June 2, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily; Metrotech Commons, Myrtle Avenue between Jay Street and Flatbush Avenue Extension; free; (718) 488-8200. Caleb Crain reviews book An American Album: One Hundred and Fifty Years of Harper's Magazine, edited by Lewis H Lapham and Ellen Rosenbush; drawing (M) and Ellen Rosenbush. and Ellen Rosenbush. Reader, I have eaten them. There were a few obstacles to the mastication. First, the trouble of eating in loaves what is normally eaten in slices. Second, an absence of what Lewis Carroll calls ''ticketing.'' Lewis H. Lapham and Ellen Rosenbush, the editors of ''An American Album,'' have supplied no headnotes to guide the modern reader. For example, Stephen A. Douglas's 1859 defense of a territory's right to choose slavery is presented for rumination, but whether it should be digested by the stomach for sophistry or the stomach for full historical disclosure, Lapham and Rosenbush do not advise. In 1927 Sarah Comstock wrote what may have been the first modern magazine profile (the subject: Aimee Semple McPherson; the method: start with the glamour, then carefully chip all the artifice off the gestalt). But there is no hint as to who Comstock herself was, and whether she wrote any more. TOWARD the end of the millennium, odd, century-straddling parallels occur to the anthology reader. Pico Iyer's week in the Los Angeles airport recalls George Ward Nichols's nine days on a Mississippi steamboat -- the feel of travel without having to move, the exotic scene in a domestic locale. Ryszard Kapuscinski experiences a 1969 war in Honduras much the way Frederic Remington experienced 1898 in Cuba: as a young reporter roughing it, shaken out of a quaint-seeming adventure by gore. And the righteous anger of Lewis Lapham in 1994, when newspapers declined to speak ill of a dead Nixon, weirdly echoes George William Curtis's fury in 1878, when newspapers treated the death of Tammany Hall's Boss Tweed ''as if he had been a hero or statesman.'' In the name of the public interest, the Harper's editor tsk-tsks the popular reaction. The target seems safe -- not only dead but a known villain -- and the editorial stance a bit unfair: Is the editor defending the people from emotional manipulation, or chiding them as softhearted dunces? Exactly. After suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, American farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to China over the next few years. After suffering through nearly three years of depressed commodity prices, American farmers hope that improved trade relations will let them sell millions of bushels of surplus corn, soybeans and other crops to China over the next few years. MICHAEL A. WHITE  Flatbush, Brooklyn At one time, British tsetse control reportedly included ''fly boys'' -- young men who stood shirtless in the bush slapping flies and were paid a bounty for each killed. Because the fly likes dense brush near water, the illness particularly affects women and the babies they carry on their backs as they collect water or wash clothes. If infected, even babies must suffer melarsoprol treatment. Trainers pulled her off longtime mounts. To keep working, she rode 30-1 shots in bush-league tracks against jockeys she once could  beat in her sleep, and lost because she held back. Other jockeys called her ''chicken'' and told her to quit. Until now, Ms. Sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local Democratic headquarters. But this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote Mr. Gore in a way that gave her more clout. Until now, Ms. Sybrandy's only political involvement was to gather  bumper stickers and buttons at the local Democratic headquarters. But this year, she said, she looked at her political participation and decided to ''kick it up a notch'' and create a site (www.all4gore.com) to promote Mr. Gore in a way that gave her more clout. So far, the Bush campaign seems to have suffered the greatest sting from parody sites, particularly over questions about whether he used drugs. The Bush campaign, in fact, tried to restrict one scathing Web site, www.gwbush.com, arguing that the site should be regulated as a political committee, but the campaign's complaint was dismissed last month by the Federal Election Commission. And as Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore know well, it also provides an opportunity for critics to exploit their foibles. For instance, www.all gore.com, recently featured a parody of Mr. Gore saying, ''Elian can live with me.'' And anti-Bush Web sites  like www.georgybush.com feature parody songs in Spanish and English that can be put on CD's for distribution. Even if much of the material is in jest, however, the creators of these parody Web sites say their intent is serious. ''We will play a small role in the campaign because there are many people coming to our site and who have heard what I have to say,'' said Zack Exley, creator of the gwbush.com site, which he says gets  300,000 to 500,000 visits a month. ''I am trying to make some points that have not been made in the mainstream media.'' Jeremiah's weekends are not usually so serene. He lives in a three-bedroom apartment in the Breukelen Houses with seven other people: his mother, a sales associate at the Toys ''R'' Us on Flatbush Avenue; her fiance, Neville Murphy; two sisters, Lauryn, 11, and Cydney, 14; two brothers, Joshua, 2, and Matthew, 7; and a nephew, Elijah, 4. Last year, he spent the summer at a day camp in Brooklyn. EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND. This series has made a tradition of doing flashback season finales. Last year it was the day Ray and Debra met. This year the subject is Robert, Ray's insecure policeman brother, and why he and his ex-wife, Joanne, broke up (something to do with his peculiar habits, like touching food to his chin before eating it). In the present, Robert has been out of commission since he was gored by a bull at a rodeo in Queens. Now he's going back to work, but at the family dinner to celebrate his return, he sees Joanne at the restaurant and begins to think about her. At the end she leaves her business card. Will he call? Or will he stay with his current sweet-heart of a girlfriend, Amy? I've been watching birds for six years. It all began at a brunch in Manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in Central Park. I didn't know what precisely warblers were, but I knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived I would go out to find them. The next day, I signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the New York City chapter of the Audubon Society. There were two classes and two field trips -- one to the Jamaica Bay wildlife refuge and one to Central Park. To get to Jamaica Bay, I took the A train to Broad Channel in Queens, where I saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the Manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from Kennedy Airport. On the trip to Central Park, not two blocks from where I live, I saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the Ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. I've been watching birds for six years. It all began at a brunch in Manhattan when someone happened to mention that soon the warblers would be arriving in Central Park. I didn't know what precisely warblers were, but I knew in some uncanny way that when they arrived I would go out to find them. The next day, I signed up for a course in beginning bird-watching at the New York City chapter of the Audubon Society. There were two classes and two field trips -- one to the Jamaica Bay wildlife refuge and one to Central Park. To get to Jamaica Bay, I took the A train to Broad Channel in Queens, where I saw glossy ibis and snow geese and egrets rising against the Manhattan skyline, sharing the air with jets taking off from Kennedy Airport. On the trip to Central Park, not two blocks from where I live, I saw warblers -- tiny, colorful neotropical migrants, flitting with mysterious life in the trees and bushes of the Ramble, the 36-acre woodland at the heart of the park. The pastel beauty of the rose garden consists of 15,000 bushes of 800 to 900 varieties. Donna Fuss, the rosarian, invites anyone to count them, as she has often in her job tending the garden for the Friends of Elizabeth Park. The Friends formed in 1977 by some members of the Federated Garden Clubs of Connecticut at a time when the city, running out of money, was about to raze some of the gardens. Resources are not lavish even with the Friends to help. Mrs. Fuss said she quickly uses her yearly rose bush replacement budget of $8,000, which comes from donations. ''It's like a maze out there and you have to have a certain kind of machine that can make the turns without taking out the bushes or the flowers,'' Mr. Prill said. Workers also prune bushes and trees. A real struggle for them in recent years is to try to get rid of non-native plants, like autumn olive and Oriental bittersweet, that are choking trees and native plants. The problem is worse in the last few years, Ms. Quirk said, possibly because the maintenance crews were smaller for several years  and had less time to cut back the weeds. Giant Outdoor Chess Garden; tomorrow through June 2, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily; Metrotech Commons, Myrtle Avenue between Jay Street and Flatbush Avenue Extension; free; (718) 488-8200. Caleb Crain reviews book An American Album: One Hundred and Fifty Years of Harper's Magazine, edited by Lewis H Lapham and Ellen Rosenbush; drawing (M) and Ellen Rosenbush. and Ellen Rosenbush. Reader, I have eaten them. There were a few obstacles to the mastication. First, the trouble of eating in loaves what is normally eaten in slices. Second, an absence of what Lewis Carroll calls ''ticketing.'' Lewis H. Lapham and Ellen Rosenbush, the editors of ''An American Album,'' have supplied no headnotes to guide the modern reader. For example, Stephen A. Douglas's 1859 defense of a territory's right to choose slavery is presented for rumination, but whether it should be digested by the stomach for sophistry or the stomach for full historical disclosure, Lapham and Rosenbush do not advise. In 1927 Sarah Comstock wrote what may have been the first modern magazine profile (the subject: Aimee Semple McPherson; the method: start with the glamour, then carefully chip all the artifice off the gestalt). But there is no hint as to who Comstock herself was, and whether she wrote any more. TOWARD the end of the millennium, odd, century-straddling parallels occur to the anthology reader. Pico Iyer's week in the Los Angeles airport recalls George Ward Nichols's nine days on a Mississippi steamboat -- the feel of travel without having to move, the exotic scene in a domestic locale. Ryszard Kapuscinski experiences a 1969 war in Honduras much the way Frederic Remington experienced 1898 in Cuba: as a young reporter roughing it, shaken out of a quaint-seeming adventure by gore. And the righteous anger of Lewis Lapham in 1994, when newspapers declined to speak ill of a dead Nixon, weirdly echoes George William Curtis's fury in 1878, when newspapers treated the death of Tammany Hall's Boss Tweed ''as if he had been a hero or statesman.'' In the name of the public interest, the Harper's editor tsk-tsks the popular reaction. The target seems safe -- not only dead but a known villain -- and the editorial stance a bit unfair: Is the editor defending the people from emotional manipulation, or chiding them as softhearted dunces? Exactly.